I tried showing my kids that trick about 15 years ago, but the modern soy inks used to print the comics don't rub off so easily. And then we quite getting a physical paper entirely.

Honestly, this was the #1 reason to have Silly Putty in the first place. What could be more fun than taking an image of Hagar or Dagwood and then stretching them into a silly shape?
I remember doing that.  But I wasn't sure what else to do with Silly Putty.....
Yep. Thought it was neat then pushed it aside wondering if I could scrape together some change for Popeye candy cigarettes instead.
Flatten out a ball of silly putty, press onto newsprint, remove, look at reversed image on silly putty. Ok. That’s a thing I did, now back to smelling the silly putty and listening to the weird squeaky sound it makes when you knead it. 
Unfortunately, me
Still do.
I don't mean to be one of **those** people, but this one thing always confused me. I remember as a child seeing this "trick" and seeing people laughing and being amazed at the stretched out images and thought "I don't get it."   
..and I laugh at some pretty silly stuff. :)

I'm using the Marie Kondo method - if a sub doesn't spark joy, out it goes. 

You pretty much nailed the same with the "remove negative vibes" rule.

Great insight on the first two, I'll be doing both.  I didn't realize until today why I'm not really looking forward to the next "Bobiverse" book - been hearing too much about the series.
[deleted]
Would love to see your list of power users.

For me, it's just 15 years of curating my subreddits, mostly to the same rules you use, and always using old.reddit.com. It's a pretty big shock when I go to a computer I haven't set up and go to reddit without logging in to see what "modern" reddit has become. If I came here today for the first time, I wouldn't be interested in reddit.
I use title filters in RES, such as "Trump", "terrorism" etc. for things i just don't want in my feed, it's actually making my feed a bit empty, there are just soooo many posts about the same subjects repeating over and over.
To each their own; Im effectively the same.

Ill skim about shows or music I like and selectively read + interact.  

The bulk of my reading+interacting looks like its gamedev, gaming (4x, base building), dating&gt;40.  

For a while I was on the various Widower/early death subreddits to get and give help, but after about 4 years of that, it started to feel like I was prolonging the pain a little.
Dumb question I guess: how do you block a user? It's something I've wanted a a few times but can't seem to find that option.
I do something similar, but I haven't tried the power user trick. I'll keep that in mind.

As an addition to what you do with #3, I also remove any of what I call "point and laugh" subreddits that start to appear regularly. Any "Cringe" stuff, trashy, publicfreakout, roastme etc.
Your third point hits so close to home. I see no benefit in getting my adrenaline pumping for internet strangers/scenarios I will never be in.
Number 1 is super important, not just for culture, but for anything ruled by a combination of popularity and big $$$. A lot of us hate reddit politics or news subs for this reason. They're more noise for views you already hear too much.

Subs about exotic interests or subcultures, on the other hand,  tend to be exquisite and very enjoyable.
Number 3 is really good advice. Subbed to uplifting news and unsubbed from morbid reality a while back and it was a great decision!
It would be nice to have a r/pihole type of thing for your #2 comment. A browser plug in or something to block the known karma whores.
I use custom feeds/multireddits like for sports, TV shows/movies/podcasts/etc, news/politics/crap, interests/hobbies, etc, and then one that's just like a bunch time-waster subs/memes
Definitely agree with 1. There are some pop-culturey subs I'm in, but I largely stay away from ones based around particular intellectual properties. Fanwankery is about as appealing as a root canal. As for number 2, I don't really block those people so much as I avoid the subs they tend to frequent, which I think are usually the big generic subs like r/memes and r/news. 3 is a great point, as much as it might be entertaining, in the long run subs like that just feed your own personal misery.

For me, my big uses these days are:

A. Porn. Porny porn porn.
B. Hobbies and interests, especially if they're kind of obscure.
C. Talking about things that I don't have a face-to-face outlet to talk about, either because it's too personal to be open about with a veneer of anonymity, or because I don't know anyone else who is knowledgeable or interested in it.

(old thread bump!)
I've done 2 and 3, but 1 is a good suggestion!
Regarding number 1, I have found irreverent shows that fly under the radar have some fantastic subreddits. If you love any shows where it seems like no one else you know watches it let alone has heard of it, then look for the subreddit.
[deleted]
If you didn't get the bar at the foot end stable before getting in the chair, it would fold in and collapse. You'd have to get up and set it up again.
...and had your ass fall through a growing hole in the aging nylon. Good times, good times. 
I can still hear the squeaky sound of the shitty aluminum.
I turned two sideways and made forts more than sat in them, but they were favorites of mine!
I'm 29 and I can confirm I've never sat in one of these. 

Well, maybe different colors/brands, but not *this*. 
r/nostalgia would appreciate this too!
accurate
Shit, I just bought one from Target last summer. 
If  you are over 40 you have probably replaced the webbing on one of those.
I think I have this exact chair in my basement 

Yep, we would lounge on them by the pool while watching Red Sox games on a little battery powered B/W TV. Good times.
Oh yes, I remember when I was quite wee lil, we had these types of chairs. I remember once again. Good times!
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/gatekeeping] [Apparently, I am still 29](https://www.reddit.com/r/gatekeeping/comments/873f3b/apparently_i_am_still_29/)

&amp;nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
Omg how did I forget that minutes used to be free after 9 😂😂😂
Pretty sure he has my exact first cell phone model, the [Kyocera 2235!](https://img.yumpu.com/14339398/1/220x527/folleto-del-2235-kyocera-wireless.jpg)

EDIT: Aw on second look it looks a bit different. The back looks identical though!
texting was such a pain in the ass until smart phones came out. i miss my nokia though. that thing was an undestroyable brick.
For about a minute I had the X Files theme and I said "The truth is out there and so am I.  Leave a message and I'll return your call when I'm back."

After that it was just "It's me, you know what to do."
I had a sweet voicemail until I had to start applying for grown-up jobs... such a buzzkill...
Why do I suddenly feel so old 😳🥺😩
I can't believe there were countries where you paid to RECIEVE calls and texts.
Great voicemail!
Be honest, who else had Spiderwebs by No Doubt as their voicemail?
Numbers will not be the full mark.
And still fucking stoic, love the beagles bro
I'm so sorry bud. Remember every moment..good and bad. You fucking know that. Man, i know there aren't words to help. Beautiful dog, beautiful run. My beagle loves trash. My no longer here beagle loved more expensive shit. Both remind me to chill tf out. Condolences.
[deleted]
There's nothing discernibly different between this and school in the 90's.

I feel like fashion stopped in the 90's. The only thing that changed was the proliferation of yoga pants and skinny jeans in the 2010s.
It’s incredible now to think back and remember that absolutely no one in the cafeteria had a smart phone.
[deleted]
Is this not what high school looks like now?
[Kerrang literally put this article out today.](https://www.kerrang.com/features/20-classic-albums-that-are-20-years-old-in-2021/) - made me feel ancient.

Christ I miss the good old days of the 2000s cringe scene.
The year I graduated. What nostalgia and I was pretty indifferent to high school in general.
Them tall tees though.
I don't understand. This isn't what High School looks like now? 🙃
Weird amount of hats in this school
This looks earlier than 2004 to me. But I graduated in 2002 and refuse to believe I'm an antique.
In 2004 I was already in college, lol
My MIL has one of these she's kept for the grandkids. Still has the little plastic disc coins too. Cute!
OMFG the memories just came flooding back...
Those lever style buttons were so damn satisfying to press.
From the mom jeans it will swing to the early 2000's low rise with exposed thong look. Sisqo will make a comeback, and all the dudes will have frosted tips. The cycle will be complete.
[ Deleted by [Redact](https://redact.dev) ] -- mass edited with https://redact.dev/
I didn't think it looked good when I was a kid and I don't think it looks good now.
I'm noticing a high waist log leg thing out there at least among younger people and it looks so horrible. It's like someone won a competition for how to make people look the worst.
You know what "fashion trend" scratches my ass?  People wearing [these damn eyeglass frames](https://imgur.com/a/xPJcVhr).  When I was growing up that was cheap shit off the discount rack only the poor kids could afford.  You knew the poor kids in school because they were wearing the 70's serial killer eyeglasses.  It was all we could afford.  Now...now it's cool.  It ain't right, man.  It just ain't.
I'm more annoyed that champion brand clothing is super expensive and bougy. Kanye wore a champion sweater like once and now it exploded
Well, be happy because the high waisted mom-jeans look is finally going out of style. I say finally because I’m in LA and it’s been a thing here for what feels like 5 years. And at least from what my wife tells me - and she works with lots of young people - the look is on it’s way out.

Which, I’m a happily married guy, so it’s not like I care how your butt looks all that much but it strikes me as super weird that every generation seems to fall for this cut that makes even the nicest butt look long and flat.
Well-fitting high -waisted jeans can and do look good, but you are correct that there are some really frumpy-looking normcore fashions out there rn.
Omg it’s the worst. I was in old navy trying to find jeans that fit me the other day and I was like wait... wait a minute. These make me look 30 lbs heavier then I am and there’s a reason this went out of style. The worst.
It’s the typical cycles of fashion, you’re just not used to it and got conditioned to like skinny jeans over the last decades. Our mothers were wearing them too. I’m 40 and love them, they make a small waist, my butt looks good and they’re comfy
These Gen Z's or wetf is doing this now isn't old enough to remember it was ugly when our moms did it. Or maybe it's hot and we're just traumatized and avidly avoiding an Oedipus complex? Either way, the fact that they never had to see it is why they think it's [insert modern colloquial term for trendy here].
Ugh, just tell me that low rise isn’t coming back. I’ve enjoyed being able to sit down without showing crack and yank my pants back up when I sit.
Why don’t you just part your hair on the side while you’re at it

Edit: /s
No. Love high waisted jeans. Turns out people have different fashion preferences....shocking.
I'M GLAD SOMEBODY SAID SOMETHING!!

Trying to be retro and vintage doesn't equal personality. As far as being hip, it's the female version of skinny jeans with no socks
Low rise is already coming back and I just bought a pair of boot cut jeans. I also have high-waisted black skinnies that I look pretty damn good in, thanks.

It's fashion, whatever. Wear what you like.
It’s for teenagers lol anyone that young looks good in anything.
Thank you for this. I often have to remind myself of this when reading comments. 
This website is an internet tabloid.  I wouldn't take any of it seriously. 
Is 946 responses enough to call this accurate?
[deleted]
[deleted]
93.8% under 35? jesus, 
Results in a very liberal bias.  
I knew it skewed younger but it's so easy to forget that and I hadn't realized it skewed this young, if these numbers are reliable based on this sample size and methods. I wind up deleting so many of my comments before posting them because the responses are so predictable. I know what I'm going to get and it's going to be dumb just like always. Sometimes I'll be debating somebody and I'm thinking, how can this person be so obtuse? It's like they're trying to be stupid just to get a rise out of me or something. But then I realize who I'm most likely talking to and I feel silly for even being in the conversation. And the thing is, you can't tell them. Not any more than you could have told any of us at that age. But it makes me wonder what I'm doing here. Why do I come here? Where are my people? Are they just online less?
Oh dear.. I'm about to be in the green slice!
So where could one take this survey? Never heard of it. Doesn't bode well for accurate representation (??)
I'm so glad to see this.  I corral many under 25s as a manager and think, "Wow, they need life experience."  Then I get on here and engage with basically the same group.  At least mine are employed.
It's tough because the stupidity of commenters on Facebook or YouTube is obvious thanks to the illiteracy. Redditors are more lucid, which makes them seem more intelligent. Of course this is fallacious thinking that I've gradually grown out of.

I used to spend a lot of time correcting people on this subreddit, especially in my industry. It's thankless and pointless so I've given up unless I'm particularly bored or I think I'll learn something through the exchange (learning the dumb ways redditors think actually is useful for marketing). Nowadays I'll just laugh at them--sometimes I'll even reply to a comment mocking them, as churlish as that is.
Jesus. I thought is was a destination for anybody and everybody. 
You also forgot to include the racial makeup, and upbringing (grew up in lower, middle, upper class family).


True. 
 
Ooops, Should I expand? 
 
Very very true.
I have noticed that.  Even if you try your best to throw out different topics it's like going fishing in the desert.
[deleted]
100% noticed. 

It's honestly quite annoying trying to hold a conversation with someone who isn't at all trying.
I mean, if they were good at it they would have friends already :P 

Eithe rthat or they are after a pity fuck.
I wasn't aware that people tried to make friends on Reddit.  I mean I will engage with people but if I'm actually trying to form a connection it's likely not going to be made on this platform.
I mean, everyone in the equation understands that these people are trying to step out of their lonely comfort zone and grow so a little patience seems in order.
[deleted]
lol

yep

k
No.
To be fair, this skill is lacking on other sites and in meatspace as well.
Well, yes ... if they had excellent social skills, they'd be at a bar or social event, making friends.

But as it is, for whatever reason, they have found themselves friendless and wanting company.

Be kind
They don't look for friend but someone who will entertain them.
Oh dear, yes! It's horrible :-)
90% is a bit conservative, don't you think?
Some of these posts are down right odd. It’s like they want to be as quirky as possible. It’s almost cringe worthy to read. It makes me think I’m fuct (and will never be fuct) at the rate this is going
Yeah that’s what made me stop trying. It’s nice to have a real conversation but if someone is barely putting the effort in there’s no point and that’s ok but wish they’d be more upfront rather than responding with the lowest effort answers.
Yup. I've used r4r and makenewfriends and other similar subs before, and about 99% of the people who would message me would be some stereotypical loser in some form. They'd be unable to hold a conversation, would get severely anxious about the idea of a voice call and often had the same three interests which were anime, Dungeons and dragons, and video games. They're basically stereotypical pimply basement dwelling nerds. Oh, and many of them would start a conversation detailing the litany of mental health diagnoses they were given. Like...yikes. I'd have a lot more fun and interesting conversations with people off Craigslist "strictly platonic" section. Sure there were a lot of psychos and pervs, but some seemingly well adjusted people too. Hope one day they can bring it back.
I think some people just feel isolated and want some kind of interaction so they feel less alone even if it's a very simple "Hi."
People are scared to write words, lest some half-literate toolbag go “TLDR” on them for writing three sentences. Happens to me a lot. 😂
[deleted]
People look for friends here? Gross.
Lol.. totally and that's if they even respond. In my opinion they are just out for the attention and for thier Reddit score to go up. Finding older people to chat to is also an issue.
Similarly, in any career related subs, many of the people looking for advice … it’s very obvious why they haven’t been able to figure out how to be successful.
I'd love to have a conversation with someone, just most of these subs are circle jerks on bad habits and woe is me posts. The commenters (this includes me) and lurkers are in the same boat usually.
I absolutely feel this way. I feel an ethical imperative to be involved in political life, but in order to take care of my own mental health I've had to *just not*. Being participatory, active, informed, and involved was killing me and just keeping me angry *all the time* and I couldn't sustain that.
I just focus on local elections and the boring politicians. The boring ones are the ones that actually get stuff done 90% of the time. Supporting them is the best I can do.

No populist drama. No scandals. No effort on my part, other than voting and donating
Yeah, I was so involved in my 20s and 30s. Now that I’m 40, I couldn’t give a shit. Trump and his rabid followers killed it for me, but maybe that’s what they wanted all along?
Close. I'm deeply cynical now, or maybe just realistic? Realizing that the two party system is just designed to keep most people doing the same stuff, over and over. Republicans are gonna blow up deficits and blame democrats for being "tax and spend libruls" when they try to undo the damage, and democrats are going to basically be quietly ineffectual at best on advancing any of their own policy goals, mostly because they're so corporate these days. Both parties are bought and paid for by interests besides their constituents, and...   


yeah.  I'm burnt too.
It didn't burn me out until people with agendas started poisoning social media with crap so you couldn't avoid it. It made once interesting discussions and exchanges of ideas completely toxic.
I use to care about things, but I just couldn't after Trump was elected. I think it's the feeling of "nothing matters." You can write letters, collect signatures, talk to friends, whatever. But at the end of the day, it *really* feels like none of it matters. I don't see the point of getting invested in something I don't believe I can influence.

I do struggle with the idea of having some civic responsibility to be engaged, and an argument could be made of "Well if everyone did what you did, then X, Y, Z!" I'm not totally out of the loop, but I'm not making a point to dig in like I use to. It's a trait my Dad has that I use to be irritated by - this dismissive cognitive shortcut of "Oh Yeah, I know what *that's* about" without really looking into it too hard. Now I'm doing it too.

Lately I have been trying to not be shy about letting people know if I don't agree with them, rather than my silence giving them the false sense that I agree. I figure if the people with objectionable views realize they've known someone this whole time who actually holds a view counter to theirs, maybe that'll soften their stance.

But the sharp, sharp separation of "this is good, that is bad. Bad should be dragged out and shot in the street" is really disheartening. There's no discourse to be had.
Yes.  I'm 45 this year and I don't discuss politics, I don't acknowledge politics, I don't watch the news, I don't read the news, I avoid any and all political discussion, media and related items.  If people ask how I voted I tell them I didn't, I say I don't vote just so to avoid the matter entirely.  

I miss the days when politics and religion were the third rail of polite conversation.  It was discussed behind closed doors at home or among the closest of friends in appropriate settings.  

And even then you could still be friends with someone you didn't align with politically.  Nowadays it's like you meet someone and they're "Hi I'm Blank Blakenson I'm a registered _____, nice to meet you, who did you vote for, why and if you believe in a deity which one and why?"  

Please shut up.  I don't care how you align, I don't want to talk about.  'Cause now if we don't align we have to hate each other and can't be friends.  Didn't used to be that way.  One of my best friends in this world is the most far left atheist liberal socialist I've ever met.  One of my other best friends is a gun and bible toting right wing conservative.  Both of those people have contributed to my life in meaningful ways and I am grateful to count them as my friends.  If I had dismissed either based on politics alone I would have missed out on great friends and valuable things in my life.  But I didn't because I don't care about their politics.

Like I said, I don't care and I don't ever want to discuss politics ever again with anyone, ever.  Can we just vote come election day and leave the politics in the voting booth?  Please?
I worked for a former US president and i absolutely feel the same way
I've gone through 3-4 cycles since I was a teenager. 

I cycle between not paying attention, deciding I need to stay more informed, being very up to date on current events, becoming filled with existential dread, and then disconnecting for a while before starting the whole cycle again a few years down the line.

With each cycle I'm more able to stay somewhat detached and not as emotionally invested while keeping up with current events. It's a tough balance but there's just too much misery and abuse and exploitation in the world to truly care about everything.
Ya it was a wild day when I realized I didn’t have to think about what the media told me I had to think about.
I stopped watching the news when Biden was sworn in, it's been great.

&amp;#x200B;

If you "actually" care and want to make an "actual" difference, start paying attention to local politics, you can actually meet the change makers and get things done.
I'm going to make this comment as a highly technical GenX who started their online journey with a Commodore Vic20 back in the early 80s and never stopped. From dial in BBS to CompuServe and Newsgroups to AOL to "raw" Internet...I've been here for all of it.

I've also been politically aware since about 1989 which is a fairly long span of time that includes both Pre and Post Internet.

From my perspective political discourse was pretty okay prior to the rise of the smartphone and social media. It was at that point that the "Normies" started showing up and from there everything quickly went to hell in a handbasket, somewhere around 2012 if I had to put a year on it.

Now its a non-stop circus that is almost impossible to escape. All politics all the time no matter where you go or what you are doing.

I'm finally burning out, there's simply no escape.
I did a little bit, but I've limited my social media (don't use Twitter anymore and have installed a browser extension that hides my Facebook newsfeed, so I only see stuff I explicitly choose to see -- mostly just groups, since otherwise I would delete my account) and that has made a huge difference.

I can still be engaged, follow the news and even sometimes take political action, but I am not swimming in the constant noise and outrage of social media. It helps a lot.
During the election, I stupidly commented on a post on FB from a Trump Supporting friend, arguing, and then on of their friends commented back and before I knew it, I was calling the guy (An adult man) stupid and he was calling me some ridiculous schoolyard insults and even insulting my looks. I never met this guy in my life and I was so angry arguing with him. I felt so stupid, and was glad when my friend removed her entire post. After that, I decided there is no point in getting angry over some idiot online's political post. I just avoid it all, it doesn't really matter. My life goes on weather I stress myself out with politics or ignore it all.
I turned 30 in 2016 so yes.
I just want to grill for gods sake.
I'm pretty jaded and angry about politics, but I get some solace by changing my viewpoint. I used to think of politicians in the US as each seeking a vision of the world they live in that would provide services that help people and that they had different ideas of what that would mean. Now I think of it more like a team sport or a cold war, where some people are trying to help make life survivable for their constituents and some only care about making money and literally don't care how many people suffer and live in fear and die. More politicians and more voters are somewhere in the middle and that is more unclear and more difficult to work with. These are not comforting thoughts, but they allow me to make sense of the world we live in and do something with these thoughts and people and events. If everyone on Earth wanted peace and prosperity we would have it. Some people want war. Some are greedy and selfish and laugh at the suffering of others, and this must be accounted for. 

I also benefit from limiting my time thinking about politics to an hour a day at most. There is simply too much information to absorb it all and I have to set limits.
Nothing has changed? Really? Wow...interesting take. 

I've been pretty involved in politics since I was a teen under Reagan. Things have mostly sucked my entire life in that regard-- Nixon on --but I just don't get the "they are all the same" line. Post-Trump at least we no longer have criminals working with the White House overtly, elected officials planning to overthrow the government by stealing an election, or a pack of unqualified loons running most of the major federal agencies at the cabinet level.  Seems pretty different to me.

But sure, it's tiring-- especially to deal with the constant, year after year disappointment of the US failing to come even close to living up to its potential or to treat citizens with any sense of equality. Easy to get burned out too if you're politically engaged and living (as I do) in a place where your values/priorities are basically opposite of the majority. Then perhaps it's wise to take some years off, put your energy into something else, and come back to the table later. I've gone for 5+ years at a stretch just voting and doing nothing else at various times, then will go for many years of volunteering, working for a local party or on an initiative, whatever it takes to make progress. Until I get burned out again.
For me I disengaged when Bush beat Kerry in 04. As always the Democrat candidate was a tepid militarist right of center asshole, but reelecting Bush?!. It was so unbelievable that it demoralized me at the age of 22, so when it happened in 2016 it hit me much less hard than some of my friends, I have such low expectations of the electorate. Similarly, watching Obama be so conservative, corporatist, militarist, and subservient to financiers (all this was written on the wall by Chomsky, Cockburn, Street and so many others, it was not a surprising “disappointment”), well that set the stage to expect more of the same from Biden. Bunch of power hungry criminals, the whole lot.
Everyone is so used to expressing their opinion behind a keyboard that they started doing the same thing in person.  Also, although you're entitled to your own opinion of politics, I absolutely don't give a crap about it.

I'm also super tired of political agendas being pushed through tv shows and celebrities (looking at you Grey's Anatomy).
I lasted all the way into my forties.  I used to follow it very closely, write a lot about it, actually try to get involved in things, and... at this point, I'm pretty much in the same boat as /u/ElizKM86 -- I feel a little bit guilty about it, but I *just plain cannot cope with it anymore*.  At all.  I have very nearly no energy to spare, and I simply can't keep myself sufficiently functional to keep my cats safe and sound without just walling myself off from all of it.  I'm too exhausted and too disgusted and I have absolutely no hope left anymore whasoever anyway... and it eventually dawned on me that I was having precisely no effect on anything other than hurting myself.  I have no power, no control, no influence, no importance, so why bother if *literally the only thing I can achieve* is taking a shit on my already-precarious mental health?

I and everybody I care about is going to get steamrollered right over, and there's not a scintilla of anything I can do about it other than trying to [enjoy what little I can, while I can](https://ashidakim.com/zenkoans/18aparable.html).
Yes.  Next question?
No, my mental health is #1. I focus on the things I can control. I don’t watch the news. If something is big enough I’ll eventually hear about it.
"I started getting burned out once Trump was elected because everything was just so negative 24/7 "

I'm with you. It's hard not to get burned out when nearly everything has been politicized for the past 6 years.
That dress is a really pretty blue color.

Also, I love your attitude. So many people on here are really struggling to find joy. I agree that you’re only as old as you let yourself be. I’m going to be 28 forever. ;)
this is not facebook.
Ugh I miss going out like that

You look so happy!
You guys look chill, good people vibes
💙🤍
The days are slow and the years fly by. Something like that. 
Spot on 👌
there has to be a way to jump out of hyperspace. coming up on 40 in dec.
When digg closed down I held my breath, but it's been a rough descent.
I get tired of being reminded to make a flair. I only browse on Redditisfun and it doesn't have an option to add flair. Here it comes.
It's not just you! 

The problem is that more and more people in that age group are online so much. You know, instead of going out and getting in trouble like we used to do. 

Is that an old-man comment or what?
The subs I'mmost active in dont seem to be as overrun by 24s and under...
[deleted] -- mass edited with https://redact.dev/
This sub is actually related to Gen X, which made sense when it started in 2010, but this year the last of the Gen Xers will turn 39. They're mostly 40-somethings now.
I know this post is 3 months old. But I'm still going to reply. 

See :

https://www.reddit.com/r/RedditForGrownups/comments/fzm45z/blocklists_and_multis_what_you_need_to_know_to/
Hai
I've always admired this man. He escaped from slavery, taught himself and others how to read, and landed a prestigious career as a Starfleet Commander.
I was once in line for security at LAX next to Levar Burton, and one of the TSA ladies started signing the Reading Rainbow theme song. It was beautiful.
[removed]
[This still makes me giggle my silly ass off everytime I watch it.](https://youtu.be/OchyYnlHTdo)

NSFW cause of language.
[LeVar Burton reading "Go the Fuck to Sleep"](https://youtu.be/gZoXGitkpNk)
[Reading Rambo is pretty cool too.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vysehvp2z8U)
Haha. I just impressed my 6 year old son. Apparently they watched it at school. When I sang the song, he was amazed at how cool I am...
Excellent show, but you don't have take to my word for it!
Hey! He has a podcast now called Levar Burton Reads

Check it out! 
The common advice for how to make friends after college is “pursue your hobbies in a social way.” For one thing, this is pretty impossible during a pandemic. For another, this is still no guarantee of friends. 

I’m 40. I’m married but childfree. The past ~20 years, since graduating college, I have tried so many things. Running clubs, book clubs, soccer leagues, community bands, volunteering, marathon training groups, dance classes, support groups, happy hour meetups, and probably more that I’m forgetting. But I am constantly putting myself out there. And while I have a ton of acquaintances, my social media is full of acquaintances, a very tiny percentage have turned into anything resembling legitimate friends, and even at that, we hardly see each other (even pre-pandemic, maybe once every 1-2 months).

Adults are busy and tried. Between work, spouse, kids, family, housework, graduate school - we all have a bunch of adult obligations sucking up our time and energy. Many adults would love to make new friends. Few adults actually have the time and energy to make it happen. Once I’m done with all my “have to do” stuff, I just want to relax and chill, often alone or with the few people I can truly chill with (i.e., not navigate awkward getting-to-know-you conversations).
I think you did what you could with your two buddies. It’s best to accept the situation and move on. 
It’s great that you have the awareness and the will to change the zero friends situation. Maybe you’d need to look a bit closer to your surroundings whether at work or elsewhere.
[deleted]
So to start given current pandemic circumstances we are all so much more isolated than we'd like to be, so don't beat yourself up for not having a huge social life rn. If your GF is moderately social I'd suggest trying to make friends with other couples. The good part about that is since you don't have kids you can devote extra time to making friends other couples can't always find time for. 

If it's any consolation making and keeping friends is actually hard work and most people lose touch after college. The fact that you were close with your college friends until 35 is fairly remarkable imo. Maintaining friendships is something you have to get more intentional about as you get older, and it won't be as "easy" as it was with your old roomies, because it's not gonna be based on proximity.
Hey man, I've been there myself.  I'd suspect most of us have.  I've probably even made a post or two similar to this one years and years ago.  And I even performed the same experiment you did, and when nobody contacted me back I simply wrote them all off.  The fact that none of them have made an attempt in the 15+ years since then just confirmed to me that they weren't worth the effort.  

I married my wife pretty young at 22, and moved all over the country so it was difficult to make headway in any given place, but I have tried a few times.  

The most constructive feedback I got from making similar posts is something that probably should be obvious but isn't always when you're living through it.  Find a hobby or a sport or something you think you could get into.  If it's a sport or something else team based that's easy to find people to get to know.  If it's something more solo oriented like painting, going to the gym, or reading, find a way to find a group to do it with.  Join classes or painting parties or a book club or something.  If you like to cook or play board games start a weekly dinner party and put up an invite online or someplace local where it might get some attention. 

It can be exhausting to find the right fit for you.  God knows I've tried and given up several times, but if you really want it I'm sure you'll get there.  Frankly I have to hope it works because I've moved around so much and am still in much the same situation years later lol.

It also will get a little easier with time.  Don't let that be an excuse to give up on making an effort, but it's not as hard to be alone when you get used to it.  For all I know you could be my age at this point already but that's been my experience.

And one last thing.  I don't know your family situation, but if you have family nearby that can be a godsend (that is if you get along).  I lived far far away from my family 15+ years, but I always knew if I went home they would still be there for me.  I still consider my brother one of my best friends despite how rarely we've seen each other, and my mom is always willing to help me with anything.  So if you have anyone in your family worth hanging onto I suggest you keep that in mind too.
Once covid is over and done with - do something new. That sounds cool and interesting to you. Make sure that thing involves regular interactions with about the same pool of people over a period of a few months. Over time, you will make friends.

For me, that was rock climbing - first at a gym and then out on trips with my new friends.

For others - it's art, volunteering, group exercise stuff, political stuff, or just meeting up with other people to talk about whatever toy you own. 

Like - old dudes buy classic cars because they think they love the cars. What they really love is talking to people about them and the connections they build and community they build over that car.

When you are young this is way easier because you are stuck in school with other kids in the same period of life as you. Not a good equivalent in adulthood, you gotta make it happen.
It sounds like the warning signs were there that they wouldn't make an effort to stay in touch since they didn't use social media AND hid in their rooms playing videogames for long periods of time.  You probably would have had better luck staying in touch if they were outgoing types who enjoyed conversation, group activities, etc.

Some of my friends idea for a hangout for example is to get a bonfire going in the backyard, grab some brews and joints.  Or go on a group bike ride.  If they aren't doing various stuff and can disappear for 2 weeks straight, i'm not sure they are really social people.
I am 44 and I joined a couple running groups. I go for Beer runs every Thursday night. We run 4 miles and then have beer at a brewery. Also, I plan events with coworkers. I schedule a yearly outing to a Phillies game and invite current and past coworkers. Missed it last year but will try again this year. Good luck.
I stopped depending on friendships so much as I got into my 30s which helped with how people were having kids and moving on and in different directions. If you really want more friends join social groups or do activities and you’ll found people with similar hobbies but for the most part that’s what friends are and when you move or change jobs or hobbies 95% or more of them will change too. Expect that and enjoy them while they’re there
Some people are what I call convience friends. You meet them in classes, work places, or gigs. But when you no longer have that in common they don't put effort in anymore even if you do. Because as you guessed it! It is no longer easy to do.
We change and grow with time and new situations. You need to find people who want to grow and also be good friend to you. 
Would love to connect if you need someone to talk to.
Send them this reddit post
Get a bartending side job at a sports bar and go out of your way to get to know your girlfriend's male extended family and the male spouses of her friends and coworkers. Also bowling or any type of casual sports team like hockey or pick up basketball at the gym. Most coupled people find friends this way. Also, even if some guy is a dork or a lot older or in his 20s don't write him off as a potential friend right away. Good friends aren't always the coolest dude on the block and sometimes have to look past the surface and you can find some solid people.
Feel this, I have autism so I've never really had many close friends, but I did have a couple for most of my teens and early to mid 20s. When I was 28 I got in a relationship that consumed me for the next five years. Lost contact with my friends and sort of absorbed all of his. 

We broke up, and it's been about five years with no friends to show for all this time single. I've tried but people seem flakey and fickle and I've been burned a few times. It's also exhausting because I have to pay such close attention to social cues or I'll miss em. 

At this point I'm essentially just looking for my forever best friend in the form of a guy. If I need to talk about him I call my mom; who needs friends.
I'm literally trolling Reddit right now looking for people experiencing this lol.  I've been there. I exerted so much energy trying to maintain contact with people and for whatever reason the effort was almost never returned no matter how tight or important I perceived the friendship to be. My best friend of 27 years now hasn't even tried to text me in about 6 months (he moved and ultimately lost touch). 

Friends from school, college, hell... even ex girlfriends. No one seems to be interested in hanging on to those relationships and I'll never understand why. 

I had to learn to accept the temporary nature of it all and just be grateful for the time I get with the people in my life while they are there. 

This probably sounds dumb but I made a discord community that's loosely focused on this in addition to casual gaming and stuff. You're welcome to come and hang out with us if you want. These people are the closest things to friends I think I'm going to get lol.
I find it pretty silly but doesn't bother me too much because I ignore it.  I think it's similar to everything being a "war" - Cupcake Wars, Storage Wars, Parking Wars, Design Wars, Bartender Wars, Whisker Wars, Wedding Wars - it just goes on and on.  

I guess if you're not watching  some kind of porn you're watching some kind of war. 

I don't think you're a prude. And even if so oh well be a prude. There are worse things.
32k subscribers to /r/NoSillySuffix agree with you
Nope, not prudish at all. I'm very open sexually (like most guys, I guess), and I find those names stupid. I'm a fan of space pictures. I'm not a fan of visiting some sub called spaceporn.


It's like when people call inanimate objects "sexy." "Such a sexy phone!" No, if I don't feel like making love to a phone, then it's not sexy! I'd understand some things, like Jeeps; they can be sexy because they make their drivers look badass (for those who are into that stuff), man or woman. But a phone? A laptop? Just no.
"Those who can, do.   
 Those who can't, watch porn."

I think that's where *younameit*\-porn stemmed from.  I'm not a fan, honestly, because IMO actual porn turns a very personal experience into an entertainment commodity.  Just my 2¢.
The "porn" suffix is weird to me, too. Like, power washing porn? You want me to fuck a power washer?
I don't think it's prude, but at the same time, words only have the power that you give them. 

The point of \[whatever non-sexual that people are obsessed with\] porn is that it speaks to evoking stimulation, fascination and joy over the images, in a tongue-and-cheek way, as it's not the same stimulation people get from porn-porn. 

Also, because these things are visual, like regular porn, there's a similarity.  

Maybe it's just me, but when someone says porn with a modifier (food, design, furniture, whatever), sexual porn never even pops in my head. 

I don't know if this helps, but the second definition of porn is not reflective of the adult pornography:

porn/pôrn/📷[Learn to pronounce](https://www.google.com/search?rlz=1CAHKDC_enUS862&amp;sxsrf=ALeKk003rnPW06Pr6y64UsVqYNLFUS91Lw:1587611098923&amp;q=how+to+pronounce+porn&amp;stick=H4sIAAAAAAAAAOMIfcRoxi3w8sc9YSndSWtOXmNU5-INKMrPK81LzkwsyczPExLgYglJLcoV4pBi42IpyC_Ks2JRYkrN41nEKpqRX65Qkq9QAFSfD9SQqgCSBgDCtq0EUwAAAA&amp;pron_lang=en&amp;pron_country=us&amp;sa=X&amp;ved=2ahUKEwi1wt6cyP3oAhWHlXIEHayADvwQ3eEDMAB6BAgLEAg)INFORMAL*noun*

1. 1.pornography."hardcore porn"
2. 2**.television programs, magazines, books, etc. that are regarded as emphasizing the sensuous or sensational aspects of a nonsexual subject and stimulating a compulsive interest in their audience."a thrilling throwback to the golden age of disaster movies—weather porn of the highest order"**
I always found it amusing to pull sexual innuendo out of common statements, but not as much any more. It's all over the internet and so common that it washes meaning out of conversation. Not to mention it sometimes gets weird when kids are mentioned in conversation.
Yeah, and the huge pussies and tight pussies subreddit. Still subbed because cats but ew that word.
I've gotten numb for terms like that. But what bothers me is how much people are looking for erotic stuff on the rest of the web when there are literally free HD porn sites to spend time on. Everything needs to be sexualized because apparently it sells well. I don't get it. Does everybody really need that or is it just a group that is easy to manipulate and somehow is still very large?

I also find that nudity is often useless in modern media. Its not part of the story and any discussions in the bedroom could've taken place anywhere else. But sex sells, see how popular Game of Thrones got. If anything is 18+ these days, they always add boobs and ass because its part of their marketing strategy. I don't get it, if I want to see that, I could also go to any of these porn sites. Sure in the old days without internet or even tv and magazines, people were easy to get hold of with some nudity but these days, do people really need it? And many stories on tv or in movies are less interesting when the lead actors have shown their entire bodies. The mystery is gone and it makes them less interesting imo.
Most cutesy catchphrases like that are just plain annoying the second time someone shoe-horns into some other concept. It's the kind of thing that gets spouted by breakfast radio presenters to make them feel relevant or something.

 And I agree that the whole -porn thing is overused and just...gross
I'm not at all prudish and I hate this too! I just find it stupid and irritating. I subscribe to r/cityporn and r/earthporn and really enjoy them, but boy I wish the moderators would rename them.
Yeah I hate how it normalizes a predatory and harmful industry. That said, I love the pics in /r/AmateurRoomPorn
Prudish? Not necessarily. However, dwelling on something like this reminds me of something my mother used to say to me as a child when I would get upset by things that in the big picture really weren't all that important. She would say, "Save it for the big stuff, 'cause this ain't it."
I say it’s the internet.  Porn, sex, sexuality...it’s really the origin story of it all.  You can’t root it out.
This just seems like complaint porn.
I agree with you completely. There's actually a tech-speak term that bothers me more. I don't want to feed the trolls so I'll keep stum. ;)
This is NOT anything that is authorized by this sub.  Will check into it and see if I can find out what is going on.  

Edit:  It is a reddit "feature"... feel free to opt out of that message if you want
I got one too just now, first time that's happened with a sub.
So excited to have a new message!  

Annnnd it’s just a bot. 😕. 

Although in its defense he caused the most action this sub has seen in awhile.
It offered me some "opt-out" link but no other information. The link didn't work; just took me to the home page (not even this subreddit, let alone the sidebar or "feature" description).
If there was anything worth seeing it would already be on my home page.
yeah, no thanks.
Yep unsubbed
[deleted]
Had one too, weird idea though, how often do people actually visit a sub rather than just see it on their feed?
Yep, I got one as well, first time from any sub. Weird.
Yup, peace
I liked it! It had been a while, and I was happy to check the sub.
I still don't understand why people place so much emphasis on round numbers

I can definitively say my early 30s are way better than my early 20s.
Lol! This is cute... I had a hard time turning 30 and having ‘done nothing with my life’ 

Go travel!!!
The anticipation is killing me. Literally.
And what do we say to death? 'See you eventually'.
Wait until you're about to turn 35...
I m about to be 30 this year
I still love music, no matter the subject matter, for the most part but I have a problem watching anything teenage centric when it comes to television or movies unless it's specifically something from my era. I will re-watch Scream, The Faculty, or Not Another Teen Movie all day long but when it comes to teenagers of today I don't have the attention span for it. It's not that I don't care about what kids are going through today - I'm just so far removed from it I don't think I'd really get anything out of it.
The amount of music in the world is beyond comprehension and covers every emotion or thought you’ve ever had including lots that you will likely never experience. Feels like you just need to stop listening to Top 40 and really broaden your tastes, there’s so much interesting and unique stuff out there. 

I’ve recently gotten into Senegalese acid jazz and a friend turned me on to modern Scottish bands. There’s so much out there if you’re willing to open up.

https://newsroom.spotify.com/2018-11-02/our-spotify-cheat-sheet-4-ways-to-find-your-next-favorite-song/
Without knowing anything about what kind of music you like....

Chelsea Wolfe

https://youtu.be/aKyX-bWK5xU


Emma Ruth Rundle

https://youtu.be/wDlJ7BBPJw0


Aurora

https://youtu.be/_Mc_OM5oNA8


A Dead Forest Index

https://youtu.be/ZaGmcn2okEc


Idles

https://youtu.be/GK0IoBb-nhM
Chopin &amp; Wager
I feel the same about books/shows. Like, if the main character is 16 I’m out. I have read/watched so many stories of that time in a person’s life I’m ready for new stages of life. The stories are out there just sometimes hard to find.
I am experiencing this a bit as well. When I hear songs being written teenagers now with deep lyrics, I just find myself eye rolling.
Sturgill Simpson
There’s a band called Postmodern Jukebox which does covers of modern stuff (and recognizable older pop songs) in a very palatable olde timey sort of way (like big band or jazz). One guest performer is Puddles the Clown  which your username reminded me of.

I’m also a fan of punk covers, and the band Vacation Room (aka Alex and the Meltons) recently caught my eye. 

If it’s specifically the content you’re against, try genres that don’t lend themselves to teen love. 90s garage bands come to mind.
Now you start your long walk with Steely Dan.
EDM. Future Beats. Trap. Or whatever the fuck its called. 

I was a hip hop head for decades, collected albums and mix tapes faithfully, loved soul, RnB, blues, listened to opera and classic music, but one erroneous Google search for "a O Mio Babbino Caro" put me on Headphone Activist's [remix](https://soundcloud.com/headphoneactivist/headphone-activist-o-mio-1) then I listened to [Caspa](https://soundcloud.com/headphoneactivist/caspa-mad-man-feat-riko-headphone-activist-remix) and I was hooked. Found the prerequisite subreddits learnt more about this, and years later, its all I listen to. Everybody says I listen to noise, but its the first sort of music in over a decade that gave me goosebumps, even today. I got tired of all the cussing, flossing of hip hop, and clever lyrics no longer resonated with me.
Now its guys like Snavs, Bishu, Flume, Alison Wonderland, Hopex, Paapi Music, Bauuer, Clozee, Juelz, Armnhmr, Clozinger, San Holo, Hudson Mohawke, KNGPN. Squired, Manila Killa, Deon Custom, Krane, RL Grime, Odesza, Habu, Keys N Krate, Mura Masa and more.

 I'll be 40 in a few months and despite my peers going for more mature music as they grow up, which I have learnt traverses anything from old school hip hop to lullabies, I bump to this.
Try listening to trance. Most of the lyrics aren't about love/heartbreak that permeates pop. And if you don't want lyrics, there's a handful of trance tracks that are just instrumental. Trance is like the classical music of our era.
Some language you don't understand for example? I'm on a Norwegian trip for now: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FnkTuHP9q3o (after searching "playlist music in ... language" on youtube")

And then there are sites like https://musicroamer.com/ and https://www.music-map.com/ (and pandora.com if you are in the US) after you found a few songs you like to find similar artists.
Though it might not be super popular, I like "Sleep Terror" a ton because it focuses on the music with very few to no words at all.
I literally spend hours and hours on youtube and bandcamp following recommendations, searching for more by artist, by label, by idea, by 'album of the week', whatever, and over the past several years I've uncovered more music I care about that I did in the previous couple of decades. The internet has made music more accessible to everyone than radio ever did. Up until the pandemic shut everything down, I got to catch a lot of these acts live and found that a live band in a small, relaxed venue is the medicine I need to stay sane. Gonna need a lot of it when things open back up.

Whatever you are looking for, even if you don't know you are looking for it yet, is out there.
Take a break and listen to classical music

Some of it is outstanding
Stick Figure is pretty good, the guy is super talented
I heard Swap Places by Lauren Aquilina awhile ago and had turn it off when she said "thought I'd have it figured out by 25".
You go to podcasts man. Also 38 and most new music is garbage. I listen to scary stories and crime podcasts. The band Manchester Orchestra is probably the only band I have found as an adult that I can get into
 When I was about that age, I switched to instrumental classical music on weekdays and jazz on the weekends.  Give those genres a try.
You lasted til 38?  I didn't think people listened to that stuff past early 20s, but then I always hated those songs.  Ugh.
in the mean time i still listen to the same stuff i listened in jr. high and high school. the genre that i like doesn't exist anymore. :(
Vaguely related. I’ve written a lot of songs over my lifetime as a hobby and this evolving sentiment is exactly what I’ve noticed about the themes in my songs. I used to write about hurt that mostly had to do with heartbreak. As I’ve gotten older I’ve written many MANY lullabies and my themes evolved around other people’s pain and wanting to help or take it away. My songs now seem to revolve around injustices in the world and wanting good things for others. It can be a trip to read songs from 20 yrs ago and think about how differently I see the world and how my priorities and focus have shifted outward.
I'm in my 40's and I still produce dance music like I'm a teenager. I dont even listen to dance music, I just love making it.

My music tastes tend to jump heavily depending on my mood. Somedays its chilled blues, others its rap and metal.
I am and always will be a pop head, so I actually quite enjoy modern pop music, but there was definitely a point where I realized the songs were no longer about me or my generation. 

But seriously, there's a ton of stuff out there. I listen to power metal, I listen to stuff my dad used to listen to, I spent a whole day listening to bardcore once. 

Listen to whatever you want!
I don't mind songs about love, youth, or heartbreak. I remember all those things even though they're distant from me now.

As for what to listen to, the world is your oyster. 

Jazz?  https://open.spotify.com/album/1weenld61qoidwYuZ1GESA?si=BEybQyXFQO2rP3bUiF3y2Q

Soul/Funk? https://open.spotify.com/album/6mGpQtwteyjKS4Up9tXuND?si=ohpCNPVJQ2OADGl0K3Ry0Q

Instrumental guitar?https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2N5AhSck9D9YvLnla0FrlE?si=SOaLENaUR9G9gaiedc8hUA
What about listening to, you know, the music and stop caring about the lyrics?
The best music is ageless.  What genre do you like the most?  There isn't a ton of good music out these days, so you can always fall back on the classics.
I've been the same but I've always been that way... What genres do you like, OP? If we share any interests  I can offer some suggestions.
songs like that trigger me for some reason lately i cringe i can’t really explain i5 either
Fela Kuti. Can. Margo Price.
So when was the last time you had a medical checkup?! I believe a blood test is in order. You may have a hormonal imbalance.
Well, theres two hours of my life I'll never get back...and to be honest, I can't thank you enough for it.  I miss Count Chocula, Saturday morning cartoons, and zero responsibility.  :-)
This is too good. 

Not that I'm technologically impaired or anything, but the internet just sometimes amazes me. 

This is some feel good nostalgia! Thanks for this /u/jojohack 
Wow, the Sears commercial.. http://www.my80stv.com/#aN1xRGZz7r8  Save $500 on a new business system (computer)
Dexatrim commercials... wow.  And Name That Tune!  Loved that show so hard when I was little and I didn't even know the music back then.  Would be so cool to see a show like this come back today...

Very cool site!  Thanks for sharing it :D
I just can't get over the mind twist of my memories of this stuff be "fresh" and "current" and then seeing how old it looks now.
Ok this is a bizarre sensation.

Watching the bumpers/ads is causing something that I can only describe as feeling akin to a mild panic attack.  

I think the jingles are something I must have been exposed to hundreds/thousands of times as a child and I'm having some kind of odd reaction to suddenly hearing them again for the first time 30 years.  

How the heck do our brains hold all this junk over such long spans of time?

I did something similar with my podcast's website. Mine also adds retro commercials in the video periodically. http://www.cartoonretrocast.com/

Click the channel selector to load a cartoon.
I downloaded a bajillion gigs of old music videos and mtv bumpers to play on my apple tv and, I thought I was a badass.  You win.  This is awesome.  Been watching it all morning :)
Wow, amazing!  The level of detail you put in is fantastic, the static and tune-in really made me smile.
This is incredible. So much you can do for improvements. I hope you find a way to profit from this so you keep doing this.

Maybe make a donation tab?

This is going to keep my girlfriend busy for a long time.

Edit: hot keys!
I love this.  Seriously, this is how I wanted to recovered from TX/OU weekend.  One request, could you include this in the 1986 year https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pex3NeyUmyc
This is awesome! thanks for creating it! It reminds me of a similar site I used to love a few years back: http://www.betamaxmas.com It was all 80's christmas movies/cartoons/commercials/specials. Sadly it isnt updated anymore and a lot of the links died :(
Thanks for this, I'll be spending a lot of time there.
WOW I just watched USA vs. USSR. This is great.

Edit: Holy shit you've got Mama's Family
This is one of the coolest things i've ever found on Reddit. You are cool.
Damn dude. This is perfect. I was born in 77 and the 80s are my childhood. I'm British but this is all golden. I'd love to make a UK version.

Also I'm sure that more than one clip from 1980 mentions the Moscow Olympics which makes it even more real somehow.
Your 30s are weird because you spent your 20s getting yourself and your own life figured out. And now in your 30s you're hit with responsibilities: bills, work, your SO, maybe kids, maybe dogs and cats, maybe you buy a house or at least live in an apartment where you renew the lease 3-4 times. You juuuust get your life all settled when BAM! More people and things rely on you. 

And at the same time your support structures start to fall away. Your friends? Busy with work and getting settled down themselves. Your parents? Getting older, less able to relate to them.
Pssh, you think you're depressed on you only just hit 30. I bet your knees don't even hurt yet!! /s
Watch your language whippersnapper!
Just turned 30?

Get off my lawn !
Some of us are just lurkers who avoid the depressing posts because life is hard enough without everyone else's emotional baggage.
Don’t worry, it’s not all doom and gloom. I’m more content now in my mid-30’s than I ever have been before.

People just don’t often make posts along the lines of “Everything is going ok, and I feel ok!”. Although maybe we should start...
I don’t like the way this 29+1 year old is talking to me.
You aren’t wrong. r/askmenover30 and/ or r/askwomenover30 are far less worse in this regard. And in real life, things are nowhere near as depressing as any of these subs make it sounds like it will be. 

Oh and welcome to the club. Just don’t eat too much bullshit for every meal, and don’t drink too much, and you’ll be fine.
Just went to a 40th birthday house party with DJs, a light installation, and everyone dressed up. Not everyone is depressed. Life is fine either way.
I'm 62 and I feel fine, though I wouldn't mind having the energy I had at 30.
I just upvoted your post when it was at 29, making it 30.
[deleted]
I'm 34, I've learned to generally hang with people in their mid to late 20s.  Anything more and I find it's hard for me to relate because I'm just not as pessimistic as many people my age.

On the other hand, I did find a small and strange group of friends who range from mid 30s to early 50s, probably average in the low 40s, who are all super chipper and immature, love to bar hop and hang out.  They're fun but not very pragmatic at times.  

The 30s people I know are pragmatic but a total bore.  The upper 20's people are both pragmatic and fun, still some light in their eyes.
My 30s have been great, but I have really good friends and I make time for them and my hobbies. Sure, relationships are hard, but for me, they’ve always been hard, just hard in different ways. I’m also finally digging myself out of my prolonged post-recession employment shithole. I work out regularly and am in the best shape of my life, overall. Your 30s are only bad if you make them that way.
Its time to stop the foul language. Adults shouldn't talk this way
Yes I feel you. Pretty much every single person I know is doing amazing in their life. My best friend just got married to an amazing guy, bought a nice big house, has a great career and now baby on the way.

I've been living in trash apartment buildings with bed bugs and cockroaches for the past 3-4 years accompanied with weekly break ins and a landlord who was a huge creepy pervert. Finally a few months ago I moved in with my boyfriend (after a lot of pleading) because I just couldn't take it anymore.

I have a minimum wage security guard job at a company that's not even open yet because of covid and my government assistance has run out so I'm technically unemployed.

I have absolutely no fucking skills. I have no cute hidden talents like most people. I can't play an instrument or speak another language. I can't keep a relationship longer than a year and the one I have now is barely hanging on. I'm absolutely useless when it comes to the Microsoft Office suite even though I *literally went to school for it* and after 2 years of it I barely know how to colour in a spread sheet.

When I get together with my friends it's all about their "clients" or what part of their new house they're going to renovate or how they've almost saved up enough for a pool and I'm sitting there with the stupidest fucking fake grin spread across my dumb face pretending that I fit in. Pretending I'm not miserable. Pretending I'm not broke as fuck. Pretending I'm over my childhood trauma. Pretending I'm still not in shambles over my moms death. Pretending that *everything is okay*.

Sorry for that rant lol
I'm sorry you're feeling this frustration. The bad news is that it takes a lot of time to climb out of a despair pit. And then you're going to hate this part, but the good news is whatever you decide the good news to be.  


You say you've "tried" therapy, implying past tense. Therapy is no magic wand. There is no magic wand. But it is a crucial cornerstone to working your way out of your rationalizations for self-hatred and defeatism. You will lapse back into defeatist thinking. You will feel like some sessions are wasted. But in aggregate - and making an effort to find a counselor you have a rapport with - it will give you tools in the moments where you would otherwise feel like you have absolutely nothing.  


Most of the people making despair posts on this sub are subscribed to some pretty hostile and nihilistic subreddits. You should adopt a garbage-in, garbage-out philosophy. If you set up your feeds to feed you stuff that trigger a hostile response in you or simply reinforce the idea that you're doomed to being a loser, you are digging yourself in deeper. When you're bored, try finding subreddits or newsletters surrounding something you wouldn't mind learning - maybe it's appreciation of art, literature, science, photographs, travel, cooking, etc.   


Part of what you're picking up on is the unfairness of our society. Consider learning more about political movements that are actually constructive about helping people find their purpose. Don't think national partisan politics or global political movements intent on fighting their shadow enemies, at least not yet. Instead, look for local groups trying to help feed people, restore an art scene, fix the local environment, etc.   


Continue to engage with support groups for people with depression, substance abuse issues, melancholia, etc. Again, a therapist should be pointing you in the direction of these groups.   


And the cliche adage is true - stop comparing yourself. Almost everything you see people in their 30s doing that corresponds with the stereotypical checklist of what adults should be accomplishing comes with an opportunity cost. People sacrifice flexibility, resources, time, and attention to secure a house and start a family. Until you dig out of this particular despair pit, there's no point in coveting their shit. If all of their shit came to you tomorrow, you wouldn't be happy. You've got to figure out what you're going to make your own purpose. Even if and when you don't accomplish that purpose, it feels better to be deviated in the pursuit of something worthwhile rather than living unmoored.
So this is maybe my own unique observation and it may not apply because a lot of circumstances of how successful you are are kind of beyond your control BUT this applies in some cases I presume...

I have some friends that are very poor and many friends that are pretty wealthy and successful with a powerful career.

The pattern I've noticed: people with good careers often have some level of "don't give a fuck" to their personality.  Honestly some of them are full alcoholics or emotionally dead.Seems you have to do some fucked up shit these days to get a good job climb the ladder play the game etc.

Whereas the people I know not doing well are overly honest people and often can't hold onto a good job because they take everything very literally and never take charge, are never plotting and conniving, motivated by material gain, etc.

I work in a consulting firm and just reached a leadership position on my current team, we're a bunch of backstabbing sons of bitches that dig trenches down and build ammo politically between entities in a contract.  It seems much of the white collar world is about playing dirty and playing to win.

It seems like it's all a rat race, and the higher up the ladder you go, the more they make sure you're a rat.  Because if you're not and you don't come across as someone who wants to play the game, you're the other kind of "rat" (a mole).  No one wants you in the company pointing out the real shortcomings, moral, ethical, or business.  They want you to dip your hand in the same pot, not implicate anyone else, and keep the wheels turning.

I consider myself a pretty liberal person.  But even in software consulting almost every job assignment I get put on is in an area I basically don't ethically agree with at all.  I've worked for a major Oil company, which campaigned at its own headquarters all the time against environmental regulations.  I've worked for a power company that was implicated as being corrupt when it came to money laundering around some piece of energy legislation.  I've worked for 2 banks now because god knows there's a lot of money in working for banks.  I hate it, but it seems most job opportunities stem from the industries which control our society (oil and gas, banking, health, insurance, ..and okay now tech).  There's a big pharma company in my town I refuse to work for because they purposefully back legislation against cannabis and require hair testing of all their employees...go figure.

This is one fucked up world.  I want to do work that feels better but there's less money in that.
[deleted]
Yes. But no. I actually have a decent job, beautiful family, and nice house. Those things don’t make you someone. It wasn’t until I started a good self care routine that I started feeling like I matter and am worth something.
Same. I was always paralyzed with anxiety and depression. Done years of therapy and different meds. But still found myself back to square one. 

When I was 34-35, developed fibromyalgia and then pudendal neuralgia and I barely feel like a human. I’m on disability now and I feel so worthless. 

I’m 36 and my husband is 25, so I feel fucking terrible that I don’t have anything now to give him.

We had planned to have our first baby this year but my body decided against it. I can’t work or really go out much. I kind of feel like this is it for me and it sucks.
I'm 36 and because I have nothing to lose have started taking more risks. I do exactly what I want because it doesn't matter. 
I will say that a good therapist, learning philosophy, and going back to those things that made me happy as child, really helped.
I'm still an adult loser over the age of 40. Does that count?
&gt;Meanwhile, I’m a complete loser

Loser is a self-described term.

Let me ask you this - loser is the opposite of winner. What defines a winner in your mind? Can you write down one sentence, a few bullet points?

Too difficult? That's because "winning in life" cannot be defined. Life is not a game. Even people who have achieved Olympic gold medals, become millionaires, have what looks like a "perfect" family, good secure job, etc.... some of them feel they are "losers" still. Countless examples of suicides by what look like "winning" people.

So if you cannot "win" at life, then there is no way to be a "winner" and therefore the concept of "loser" does not exist.

\----------

Postscript: IMO you "lose" at life when you die. Either naturally, suicide, accident. So before you die, you're a winner. You're alive. You can experience the beauty of life and do things. So make the most of your winning time. I'm about to go have hot wings from KFC. That, for me, is winning at life.
I don't believe in losers. Simply because you would never ever call a child a loser, and it seems absolutely ridiculous to pinpoint the day you became a loser. "See this week, on Monday I was ok, but on Tuesday I was a loser". Nope.
Yep.
🙁
I've been trying to find the answer to this same question all through my 30's.  I don't have any more of an idea how to fix it at this point than you do, but I've slowly started figuring out that living your life by "doing the things you are supposed to do" according to the rest of the world is definitely NOT the answer.  I've finally realized that burning myself to the ground for everyone else's benefit leaves me with nothing left to be happy about.  I've made it a point to start cutting out those unnecessary "responsibilities" whatever they may be, and learn how to start telling people "No" so I can spend my time on finding things that actually make ME happy.  I still don't have any idea what those things are, but I feel better knowing that I can at least experiment and make finding them a priority.

It feels like a selfish way to go through life, but you really have only one boss in this world that you have to report to, and that's you.  When everyone else goes to bed, they aren't worried about whether or not you're happy, but you are.  When I started thinking this way, to my surprise I found that things tend to take care of themselves whether I was involved or not.  It's not perfect, but at least I feel like it's the right direction.
Sounds like you’re depressed. Have you talked to a therapist? I’d definitely recommend that. 

Aside from that, I find having a larger life purpose to help me get through these tough times. That and having consistent rhythms to your days really helps. Bed at the same time, up at the same time, exercise, and intermittent fasting are a few of recommended.
I’m kinda in the same boat. I’ve always felt an undercurrent of melancholy. In my 20s, I thought maybe I’d figure out the meaning of life eventually. In my 30s, I have to admit there probably isn’t any. I think most of the shiny happy people fall into one of two camps:
1. They’ve accepted someone else’s easy answers (eg their parents’ religion) so they don’t have to think about this stuff.
2. They’re one of the simple folk—people without much capacity or appetite for abstract reasoning.
I no longer chase enjoying life. Life is pain, and anyone who says otherwise is selling something. But I can find joy in individual moments and activities. I take joy in loving my kids, listening to music, and enjoying nature. I keep myself in a state ready to enjoy those things by exercising. But not just a little. Going to the gym does nothing for me, but going to the dojo (brazilian Jui Jitsu) and getting the shit kicked out of me on the regular and pushing to the edge of exhaustion, THAT's what resets my world view. (I also suggest the mushrooms)

However, none of this would be possible without medication. My lack of zest for life came on long and slow until I was 38 and nearly suicidal. The first time I understood why people kill themselves I got really scared about what that would do to my wife and kids and sought help. I like to say that BJJ saved my life, but medication got me to the point where I could see solutions on the horizon. 

TL;DR I suggest drugs and fighting
Much about life is learning to cope with life. Look to the things that make you excited about life and lean into that. 

Like I'm super into weird fish. And they never let me down because there is no limit to weird fish.

Another person mentioned psychedelics, and I will second that for depression. It's like your soul takes a big flush of all the BS and none of it matters anymore, you are like wait why was I worrying so much about that thing...

Hang in there my friend
Well, this is the central question, isn't it?  

Buddha offered a lot of very practical advice on the subject.

As others have mentioned, taking psychedelics can wipe away the crust of mundane living and expose the life force and joy hidden by our ego and the way we were trained to live. I never specifically tell anyone to use them, as it will be different for everyone and a very small number of people have problems. But I will say they helped me a *lot*. And better yet, they led me to explore Zen Buddhism as I matured. 

We have all learned many fear responses, and are constantly reminded that life is supposed to be a gray and grim struggle. There is always struggle and effort, but it is not the whole of life. The Stoics believe that most of your pain is due to your internal emotional reactions to what happens in your life. At first it didn't make sense to me, but the longer I practice it, the more I find it to be true. Doing what needs to be done in life without tangling it up in negative thoughts actually makes the doing enjoyable.

I never wanted children but my wife did, so at the time I "went along" with her wishes. I'm so glad I did. I'm not going to spew a lot of cliches here but I enjoyed the whole experience. They're adults now and just amazing people to know. I don't take credit for anything other than helping them learn and not getting in the way of their own self-discovery.

Helping others often gives real meaning to your own life. I'm still pretty selfish and lazy in this respect. But I've tutored people and gotten joy from watching them really "get it". I've helped neighbors with construction projects - it's not "fun" but it's satisfying. I plan on volunteering for Habitat for Humanity.
You may need to try mushrooms.
[deleted]
Not having Gout is a good indicator of people who enjoy life.
Not sure if still active this thread, I’m just scrolling through.
But since I am once of those who really love life and don’t take my every day for granted so I’ll weigh in. My take on your thoughts are: we are not supposed to feel happy all the time. Happiness and joy are luxury and good things to have, but they are not conditioned. If you feel it, appreciate it because it won’t last but that is ok because it will come again. And in between those, it is ok to feel bad and depressed but is shouldn’t be the majority of time. If it does, you may have some balancing work to do and really reflect on those thoughts - what do you think/feel that bring you down. 

We need to work. And work is not supposed to make you happy, but it shouldn’t take the living light out of your life. J B Peterson said, and I guide by this, you have a moral obligation to do job that is meaningful to you. Note it’s not the one that brings you joy or happiness, it’s the job that you find meaningful.
You had a father who was either not present or satisfied your mother and her needs. If your father was not present your mother abused you emotionally to satisfy her emotional needs and you were her little husband. If your father was present, he avoided conflict at all costs.

I could be very wrong just a shot in the dark.
At 53, I feel the same about 30 year-olds, haha. 

Pretty seamless with the 40-somethings though.
Imagine how I feel at 41
I sit across from a 22 year old at work and it's really wild
I just turned 40 and I am in Uni at 5th semester.

Happy to leave soon and not get back to the young folk. The difference is too wide.

There is about 20 percent 30 year olds around I would say but still.

I still look 33 ish thank God and nobody knows my age
I feel ya. Im back in school (thank goodness almost finish) and hear my 20 something classmates complain about feeling old and im like bish I wish I was in my 20s again. Also I realize I can't hang with them as far as drinking, my recovery takes too long.
I'm also 38 and have never been married. I don't feel like a loser as much as it just makes me unhappy. I don't have any family or true friends so it makes it even harder. I think it's unlikely it's going to happen at this point and I'm trying to somehow come to terms with that. 
Married? No. Being single, maybe.  But I'm a recovering alcoholic of 15 months so I kind of killed off my old life and started again, being single (maybe forever) was a sacrifice I made.     My two cats love me (Well, one does) ;)  most of my friends are unhappy in a relationship they settled for anyway.  Doesn't look appealing. 
Absolutely not. I would rather be happily unwed than unhappily wed.
Does divorced count?  I've been single for about five years now and have no desire to be married again. 
I'm 37 and yes I do feel like a loser for not having my own family yet. I'm also a guy and seems like dating is more like a part time job instead of it being a fun experience.
I am 45 and been married twice.  Take it from me, don't take it so hard.   Only a select few marriages are really worth bragging about.  Only thing you can control is yourself.  Therein lies the problem.  
Wayyyyy too many variables to have to contend with for it to actually be any fun or gratifying.

Side note..... I used to feel exactly like you did, up until about six months ago.
From 30-44 I was obsessed with having what everyone else had.   The more I closed my mouth and opened my ears, the more I was made to understand that what everyone else had was vastly overrated.

34/F and have never been married but I have an 11yo son. This year, I've just felt desperately lonely and needing a partner. I'm afraid I'm doomed to be alone forever. 
34 years old, never married. 

I don't feel bad about it at all. 

Note: I've had the same girlfriend for 8+ years and we own a home together (no pets, no children, and no plans to marry). Nobody bothers us about it (not family, not friends, not co-workers).  We just live our own life our own way.  It's pretty nice. 
No, I there's nothing wrong with being single at your age (or any age). It's too bad how idealized relationships are in our society. Sure being with someone who is awesome that you love is great, but being on your own is not bad either.
Nope. 34 single with multiple lovers, no kids, easy job, cool hobbies, no regrets (at least not about being unmarried) By my observation its massively overrated.
37m here, never been married, never had a girlfriend.  I'm just the kind of person that has things women don't value (bipolar disorder, Aspergers, moderate disability that keeps me from driving) and doesn't have things they do (a real job, a place, normal looks, charisma).  There is only so much I can do to change these things as most of them are outgrowth of pathologies or fallout from them (I've had an incredible amount of disability based prejudice when trying for jobs).

Do I feel bad about being single?  Yes, some of the time.  But I've seen my big brother going through separation and divorce these last few years and my life single is a complete blast compared to what he is going through.
I'm 38 and have been married for nearly 15 years. Divorce court date: December 6th. So, there's that for happiness.
[deleted]
I always say that to myself.... I'm gonna be 40 in Dec.  and wasted 15 years of my life with the mother of children,  knowing it wasn't for the best and was not gonna lead to anything,..... Sometimes I feel like I missed out on alot in life and it's now too late to find that someone to grow older with and die with
Yes, I'm 36 never married, and I do feel exactly how you feel. IDK, the more I get to 40 the more I feel that it'll never happen and oh well just enjoy life as a single. 

I mean my cousin just got married for Christ sake and I remember changing his diapers....All of my friends have gotten married, been to more wedding then I can count, but I enjoy living by myself doing what I want to do whenever I want to do it. IDK, some days you feel so lonely and others you're glad you don't have to ask another person if you can go out with friends for a drink.
I will never get married or have kids. It was just never appealing to me. I date though and don't mind having a steady girlfriend. I'll date women with kids, just don't want my own. The less the government and lawyers involved in my life the better. I'm happy about it and my family excepts it. Also, living this way gives you the freedom to spend money how you want and always do what you want.
I saw a jewelry commercial that was showcasing engagement rings. The whole message was "GET ENGAGED!" and things of that sort. It was horrible. You should not just GET ENGAGED! Unless you're reasonably confident the person you're getting engaged to is right for you now, and probably right for you in the future.

Marketing messages should not dictate life direction. Neither should peer pressure or family pressure
42 f here. Never cared about marriage. Never wanted kids. I have 1 loser bf after another. No rush to get another. If it happens it happens. I hate people and cant pretend well. Bfs cut into my me time. I can never get enough me time. Im still my best sex partner. 
Just get a divorce, then the pressure goes away.

You can probably get a divorce all by yourself.

Just burn half of everything, and then auto transfer 50% net disposable income to the Westboro chruch.
Sometimes I do feel like that but then I spend an entire weekend doing whatever I want....   not that this is that great. Having a family is good. I did have that briefly and try to hang with my kid as much as I can. It is what it is.
my brother in law didn't get hitched till he was in his early 40s. he was pretty content. 

granted, his sisters kinda tried to shove him head-first into marriage a LOT. this was a move they all regret(but refuse to admit they regret). 
Almost 39, never married, not had a GF in far too long, but somehow it's been ok. Yes, I'm lonely and a bit depressed about it at times, but the shit I just don't have to deal with is kinda awesome. I don't like going out, I really don't put any effort into dating, so it's an understandable predicament. I'm kinda at the point where I've "worked on me" so well that I'm too independent for half hearted attempts at relationships. 
No. I'm a strong, independent man that don't need no woman. The fact that I own many cats is merely incidental. 
Ay 38 also and never married also..ive had plenty of sex tho so fuck it
older than you all, but I know so many friends who were not on the marriage track- didn't even want kids- met the right one- fell in love and the rest came quickly.  my recommendation- stay open, stay engaged with life- put your best self on when you walk out the door.  dont give up.- it's more active than hope.
Hey bro! I'm pushing 40 and never been married. All my friends that I grew up with are Married with Children. I've had an incredibly successful career, not a bad looking dude, have a great family, nice guy, everything you think would get me to settle down with somebody but the truth is, sometimes you just don't meet the right person for you. You know what makes you happy and what doesn't make you happy. Why get into a relationship only to get a divorce because you force yourself to get married cuz you thought that's what you were supposed to do.

Live your life dude. It may look Rosie from the outside with everybody else but everyone's going through shyt at one point or another.

The only time I get lonely is before I go to bed at night. Other than that I feel pretty good.  I've even lost interest in dating because bitches be crazy
No because these days only losers get married.
I mean You don't feel sorry you're not married you just feel sorry you're lonely, I'm not married but always have a girl to bang. 
Marriage is great for grand passionate lovers, which isn't every couple clearly.

For most, civil union is better.
Yep, every plant scalpels everywhere there's couples. Couples holding hands couples grocery shopping, couples with babies. And then there's just me
I read somewhere that at my age its more likely ill meet a celebrity than get married! I cant wait to meet a celebrity!
Nope. I've never been married and haven't felt bad about it.

I'm also childfree and marriage honestly scares me quite a bit, so that might have something to do with it. Boyfriend (Fiance) and I are finally taking the plunge this year on our 10th anniversary.

I am happy with how long I have taken to make such a big decision. If I get married, it's going to be once, and I wanted to make sure it was to the right person. It helps immensely that I wasn't feeling rushed by wanting children.
Not really , in my circle of friends they are all divorced and fighting over the kids 

I'm 35 and unmarried. It's not because I don't want to be married. It's because I'm fat. The world is a difficult place for fat women. I'm having weight loss surgery this summer, so hopefully that will be a thing of the past, but it sucks when you got a bunch of other stuff going for you and one thing holds you back.
I'm very socially isolated, I've really not had close friends as an adult but now I don't even have aquintances to go out for a drink with either. 

Sure many people are too busy, too short on cash, or already have their social groups, but it seems there's something more to it. I think people have become less social - in part due to our age but also the state of the world has left us lacking energy and motivation. Social media has changed how we socialize and ruined us when it comes to IRL socializing or building relationships. 

I do all the things you're supposed to do in order to make friends, like Meetup and trying to find free events or new hobbies, but it seems there's very few other people trying to meet new people. In my twenties everyone would be out in the bar, now everyone just wants to sit in watching Netflix.

Point being - you're not the only one thinking this.
That's certainly been the case in our world...I'm 50+ but am the oldest in my workplace. All of our peers are currently either raising kids, caring for aging parents, or both. Very few seem to have time for much else, so we manage to do something socially perhaps once a month. We live far away from all our friends from our teens/twenties, so pretty much have only our work connections now. Many of those I consider friends, but it's not like we hang out...maybe a pub trivia night or a potluck or something once a month. 

The folks I see being really social are all 65+, so retired with time to spare and no kids to care for.
We’re in our “late mid 30’s”, and my husband and I have made a lot of new friends through the board games/miniature games hobby. It’s kinda like a bowling league for nerds. Um not sure what your interests are, but if you have a local game store you might want to see if they have a board game night? It can seem intimidating at first, but I’ve found that most people in the hobby are pretty nice.  It’s just a suggestion, I hope you are able to find some urban works as make some new friends!
33 here. I suggest joining some type of hobby meetup or kickball group. I did kickball. And if you are worried about being athletic or too old, don't be; the local kickball groups have all shapes and sizes but the good news is everyone is generally late 20s and more so early-mid 30s (at least in my area). What happens is usually you have your league match then go to a local bar. So easy to meet a lot of people because all of the teams meet up together, so it's at least 50+ people. I played for 2 straight seasons before work got into my schedule but I have 3 very good friends from it, with 1 being my best friend (and this was 8 years ago). I have a dozen or so "acquaintances" from kickball that I can just join on a night out and have fun. They also invite me nearly every weekend to do something.
based on the experiences my girlfriend and I have had these last few weeks trying to make some friends together on here, i'd say yes, people are too busy. the solace we've found is that we only need one or two people to become and stay friends, so long as they are actively chatting, good humans who want to have deep relationships.

she's especially been dealing with the whole "revealed to be taking advantage of me" and people who were just looking for sex.

I believe we'd have a lot of commonality in that respect with you.
[deleted]
The Fiancee keeps telling me about one of her co-workers. He and his wife share a lot of our nerd interests and she talks about the possibility of new friends constantly. She's so, so excited about it. Hopefully this doesn't end up being a "we make plans and then break them at the last second" deal. So often folks make plans and they mean to keep them, but when it comes time to actually do something they are overwhelmed or exhausted or too nervous to do anything
I am divorced 38F and moved to be closer to work which I work ALOT so making friends is difficult especially single friends. I just recently found an app called meet up with different groups based on shared interests, the majority of the groups are free. I haven't found any dates that work for me yet but there are a ton of groups to choose from. Check it out, let me know your thoughts :)
Send me a message if you want
When I was in my 30s, I wasn't necessarily too busy to make friends, I just only made them if I really wanted to. If I went through a depressive stage, or a medical issue, i'd isolate. When I happy, it was very easy to make new friends even after a 10-12 hour work shift. If you want it, it'll happen.
I would look at each instance of people distancing themselves and see if they have anything in common. Did you reach out too soon/too aggressively? Are you trying to get into serious topics pretty abruptly? Did you make plans that were super nebulous? I find that the more specific the plan is (while still leaving room for a deviation) the more likely it is that we'll actually hang out. Saying "We should [insert activity]!" is too broad. At least at first, try setting plans that are okay for people to be late or early to, like meeting up at a bar for drinks and apps. That way if work or life runs early/late you can easily adjust. 

&amp;nbsp;

If you're already doing all these things I'm sorry I don't have anything more of substance to add, but I do think it's worth it for other people to see. I have a surprising amount of "We should hang out sometime!" or "We should do [mutual activity!]" acquaintances. But if somebody asked me to do something tangible, I'd be down for it.
Lol, I don’t genuinely care about most of my best friends’ days and I sure as hell don’t want to hear about them 99% of the time. That doesn’t mean I don’t love them. Maybe spend more time on hobbies than people. It’ll make you more interesting and expose you to others with shared similar interests.
Hope it goes okay for you. Hope putting your thoughts down helped. Be thankful he's your ex and that you got out.
You can do it. Remember that you are in a better place now even if it is not prefect. You are rocking that single life whether that's binge watching everything you want on Netflix in your pjs with a bowl of cheerios or hanging out with friends and having new life adventures. Wear that independence like an armor to the party. You are strong enough. Smile and remember you are beautiful!
You're braver than I am. I avoid these kinds of social situations because I'd prefer not putting myself in any position that would make me stressed out or uncomfortable. I don't see any point in putting myself through that. (I also don't understand why people would enjoy watching tearjerker movies. How do you get pleasure from being sad? Coco was not a fun experience for me! But I digress...)

Best of luck to you.
You are not alone. You can do this. I'm sorry that he was a "taker" but at least you are away from him.
Go to the party and I hope you can be satisfied that you are free of that pitiful boy.
Hey. You got this. Things are better now, and you’ve moved on with your life. It’s ok to feel resentment, but don’t hold onto it. Feelings like that can be poison if allowed to fester. It’s ok to let go of things that don’t serve us. So many aspects of your life seem to be better now, why hold on to poison feelings, or dwell on what could have been? It’s over. You’re free. Be free in your heart as well.
I can relate to some of the things you mentioned, and i completely understand the resentment. Moving on with a new relationship does not mean they're ready to move on. Sometimes people need to be with someone. Needy finds needy.

I realised this pretty late. Learning to love myself now. 

The sadness i feel is from the loss of.... i don't know, time, innocence, hopes and dreams, i hate weddings because of this. You can see the brightness of their future shine in their eyes and you know those stars died out long ago for you. 

I have a strong urge to delete this post so i'mma click that button now.
Good luck and best wishes for it going as well as it can.  It's a difficult situation.
I understand completely what you are feeling.  You are doing the right thing by taking this time to learn about yourself.  You will get there and find someone to squeeze your hand and give you a hug, I have no doubt about that.  Congratulations on breaking free and getting yourself back!
Your situation sounds very similar to one I went through some years ago. Although you don't have to be at all times you ARE strong and you've got this. Don't let his presence diminish your good time or stop you from seeing your friends. I hope you the best!
Quit dragging around the baggage and just let it go. You'll be much happier once you do. At least that's what I'm told. Good luck!
There's something to be said about nostalgia and familiarity.  

I drove by my old elementary school the other day.  It's on the same land it was on when I went there but it's a whole new building.  They demolished the old building and rebuilt a new one.  I was watching the area where the field was where we had recess and played football and swung on the swings.  There are portables (trailer classrooms) in that space now.  It made me sad because I remember the fun I used to have there and now it's gone.

When I looked at that school and I didn't remember all of the times that I hated waking up to go to school or the homework or classwork or the bullies or the tests.  I remembered only the good stuff.  Missing the good stuff made me sad.  

I don't know how this in anyway relates to your story but I'd say that you are sad because you miss the good times but still remember the bad times.  Just go and be yourself.  Enjoy your friends.  Life goes on.
You should realize that none of this has anything to do with guy and everything to do with your own inability to go beyond.  The opposite of love is not hate, it's apathy.  I doubt you're going to enjoy yourself much until you learn to let this guy go.
You’re so strong. Hold your head up, you’re a beautiful woman.
Thank you.  I've been moisturising.
Less tanning and smoking.

Tanning and smoking will age skin super fast.
Everyone looks younger now. Medical, nutritional and cosmetic advances have helped a lot. And I do think having kids ages you (though I'm sure it's very worth it). I'm a lot less wrinkled than my friends with kids and I was never the one with good skin! But I do think a lot of it is attitude and expectations. People act younger longer now. We aren't really expected to grow up and be serious as much. It's not unusual to see a middle aged woman with purple streaks in her hair or a dude in his sixties wearing skate sneakers. The boomers hate aging so much they basically made it illegal.
Archie Bunker turned 50 on that show.  Him and Edith looked OLD. 
I'm about to turn 40 so I might be biased but you're right we look great!  

Seriously though I think it's just a perception thing. I used to work with younger people at a restaurant, and I would get the "Oh wow you're 33? I thought you were my age!" from coworkers in their early 20s.  
I think it's their perception that 30 or 40 are milestones where people become "old people" like their parents. 
My dad died at 38 and didn't really look 38. My roommate now is 37 and his girlfriend is 38 and they don't look late 30s. 

I used to think over 40 was old, now I just think it's prime age.
I'm 38, quit drinking 19 months ago, started lifting weights, buying nice clothes (with saved booze money) got a proper haircut and lost about 100lbs, I look better than I did in my 20s. 
People taking better care of themselves, better nutrition, less conformity of dress. Other than that I am guessing your perception has changed. I am late-30s but you wouldn't guess it.
I think it's partly that when you are young, everyone looks old. You're not the best age estimator. But every generation has a longer life expectancy and better health overall. A 50 year old a hundred years ago was a lot different than one today.
I think it's the smoking, because I'm 39 with four kids and people constantly act shocked at both of those facts (and I don't just think they're just being nice, because I also get a lot of, "hmm, you don't LOOK old enough to have a teenager" with a look like I must have been a teen mom - I wasn't, but who cares at this point anyway).

edited to add: also, as a nurse, I've met a lot of people and known their ages, and there is a huge variety in how "old" someone looks in their 40s/50s, which seems to have a lot to do with lifestyle up to that point.

I am 42 and I see a wide variety of appearances for people my age.  I know a good amount of 40+ that still look good and could easily pass as low 30's and I know others that look like they are in their 60's.  Its a weird age that can go either way.  

I do know most people are surprised that I am 42, though I am not in the best of shape, I still have a youthful face.


[deleted]
Some of it is people taking better care of themselves, but it's mostly perception.

I remember being in 2nd grade and thinking 5th graders basically looked like adults.  Now that I'm an adult 5th graders look like kids... WTF
I'm less than a year from 40, yet I regularly get pegged at lower-30s and occasionally late-20s. I've noticed strange looks when I mention my oldest child is a teenager. I think it has a lot to do with lifestyle and personal style. There are some age-peers I've seen on social sites and dating apps that look rough and worn an I typically assume they are smokers or have/had other less healthy habits.
Surprised by the answers here. I have cracked it up to my taste in women changing and most men whose age I know I simply see commonly enough... I guess it is possible that it has to do with nutrition though
My parents looked far older than I do at 40 however I do work to stay fit and stay in shape and they did not and still don't. 
I mean, I’m 42 and [this is me](https://imgur.com/gallery/Lmhj6) .
I see a lot of people I think are older than me at 47 and find out they are younger. You may be noticing people looking younger because it is what surprises you, but those who look their age or older, are not sticking out to you. 

Add that to you being older, and a lot of things said already here, and your opinion about age and looks have changed. 

We dress more casually than before. 
We have no kids or had them later.
We take care of our health better.

Funnily my Granddad looked old when he was in his 30's but looked basically the same until his death at 84.

My parents are 74 and 79 years old but look like they're in their late 60's maybe. They are very active, they dance, they bike, they take their campervan on holidays.

If it wasn't for my grey beard people would probably still think I was a 30-something.
I have been attributing it to clothing. 
It's relative. You've just gotten older. Depressing but true.
Sorry to burst your bubble, but this is just your imagination. You look at yourself in the mirror every day, and get accustomed to what you see. Go and look at a picture of yourself from 5 or 10 years ago... is that a younger person? Yes? Well, guess what, that's what a 35 or 30 year old looks like. But you're now so accustomed to seeing 40 year olds (yourself and your friends) that you don't register the typical aging signs anymore.  Trust me, to a 15yo or a 20yo you look old as fuck. It's just you yourself who can't distinguish it anymore. Coincidentally, the people who were in their 40s during your youth probably went through the same thing. In their mind, THEY also thought they were pretty much still in their late 20s.
I was just thinking this today, I've been working with the same guy in a shared office for 6 years and always thought I was older than him, found out today he just turned 40, made me realize perhaps I should hit the gym and shave a little more often.
I totally agree, people in 40s, 50s and in their 60s look younger than their age. I think it’s because we are taking better care of ourselves. We are more hyper aware of what we put in our body and take care of our skin. Look at the golden girls (my favorite show ever) in show they are in their 50s, if you look at someone today in their 50s the comparison is unreal. The ladies look like much older but again we live in a different time. If that makes sense. Also, no one is smoking as much as they used too, I would imagine that plays a big factor in that too. 
I have noticed this myself lately. I find myself surprised upon learning a coworker is in his 40's when i would have guessed late thirties. then i realize how silly that sounds and that these are the same people i remember being surprised about being in their 30's back when i was in my early 20's
Depends on the person but 40 must be the new 30! :) I see a lot of younger kids these days looking like grown ups. 16, 18 year old girls looking like they're 30's, look older than me. I'm 32 but looks 25:) I dont drink much and dont smoke. Also dont drink sodas
sex burns calories live younger, you will feel younger have more sex!
It's funny, I do find it harder and harder to differentiate people between ages. People often think I look about 23-25, yet I am 33. But I have found that after a certain point it can be hard to really tell the difference between, say, a 25 year old and a 40 year old. Some people just have good genes I guess!
I'm in my 40's and I've observed this too, but it's good to hear a millenial state it too.  My team at my previous job was made up of millenials, they thought that I was in my early 30's.  I took that as a compliment.  However, they also lumped genX and boomers into one category and that part was very meh... there's a reason why genX look younger than boomers did at the same age.  Our lifestyle and mindset is different, don't lump us into the same bucket.
Yeah, and 20 year olds look like 14 year olds now. As in "how the fuck is that 14 year old kid in the bar area?"
Just you. 
Funny to see this posted. This evening I heard What a fool believes by the Doobie Brothers and was instantly transported back to the late 70s. Hated the song at the time, but now it's bringing back so many memories and nostalgia
My mom passed in 2019, some of it I can't yet listen to.
Apparently I'm a weirdo because I like the music my dad played when I was a kid (which was his 50s-early 70s favorites). I just made a 6 hour playlist of *my* favorites from that era.
Blister in the sun by the Violent Femmes will always be associated with my dad. My dad had some great taste in music and I give his cassette collection the credit for shaping my personality.
Yeah, I’ve got some Bob Seger in my playlist for the exact same reason.
What did she listen to?
My dad only listened to sports radio and Rush Limbaugh.

... I can't say I'll ever listen fondly to conservative talk radio...
That is so sweet. I’m the same way. My mom used to sing hymns when she was in the kitchen. Today there’s a street performer who plays all the exact same hymns on his saxophone in the train station by my place. I had no idea how much I those hymns resonated with me until I heard them being played so far away from home. 

I also saw someone say their dad listened to sports radio. And baseball on the radio has that real distinct sound that will always remind me of my dad.
I have adult friends who go twice a year. I think it’s 90% indulging themselves in the ways they wished they could as a kid with the money to back that up. 

The other 10% is how easy Disney makes it to have an all inclusive vacation. It’s almost like a cruise package. 


I’d love to go once as an adult just to see how it matches up with my memory. I’d go in the off season.
I have friends who claim it's like travelling the world. As someone who actually has travelled the world, this baffles me. Especially since I've done so for much cheaper than a Disney vacation.
I've ONLY ever gone to Disney as an adult.  In fact, the FIRST time I went to Disney World was with my oldest kid, but I've been there a number of times without children.  There are a LOT of reasons to go.

1. The magic is REAL - seeing children enjoying the park and their favorite characters come alive? Priceless.
2. The amenities are amazing.  The available food options, resort options (spas, boat rentals, etc.) are amazing.  I've rented a boat and travelled around the lagoon outside of the Magic Kingdom!
3. The detail is second to none. I've weathered 2 hurricanes at Disney World, and in the morning you could not tell a hurricane had been through. I've hunted hidden Mickeys, I've enjoyed artwork at the Polynesian inspired by Swiss Family Robinson. It's intense.
4. You can enjoy a week long vacation without stepping foot into a park! OK, maybe an exaggeration, but at Disney there are so many hotels, venues, clubs, restaurants, pools, etc., that you can seriously occupy yourself for days.
5. The rides are still thrilling, and there's always something new! The coasters are fun and different, Toy Story Land is an amazing use of immersive technology, I cannot wait for what they're cooking up at Epcot, etc.
6. The shows are full of amazing talent! Many performers can build whole careers there, and they're all so good.  The Tarzan show was cool, and classics like the Lion King and Indiana Jones are so fun.

If I still lived in Florida I would definitely be on the list for Club 33, no doubt about it. It's like season tickets to the Bucs, but you can use them more than 8 times a year.
nostalgia, also some rides are still fun. Space mountain/thunder mountain are still good coasters.
Disney brings magic. It’s a combination of things. It’s the nostalgia, the illusion, the fun, the themes. Disney is comforting if it’s your thing. I grew up with Disneyland, I worked at Disneyland, as an adult, I still love Disneyland and Disney. Believe it or not, you don’t have to spend a ton of money. Yes you can get souvenirs and treats and all the gear but none of that is needed to enjoy the experience. I love the rides and the shows, and with fast pass you can maximize your day so you’re not standing in line for hours for one ride. I don’t go every year or drop tons of money. It’s the same as anyone else investing in things they love. I’m not a “crazy Disney fanatic” either but it provides a feeling of comfort and joy for me so I go every few years and have a good time. I’d be happy to answer any questions I can.
Magical thinking. 

Our assistant loves to spend all of her savings going there... she has come a long way but she's still prefers living what she fantasizes versus reality.

Hard to blame her really when reality kind of sucks... I just wish she would have some savings.
I haven't gone myself, but will definitely take the kids. It'll be fun to see them enjoy it!
I wouldn’t go now, during Covid. But Disney parks are really fun. If you go to Florida, there are like 5 different parks + 2 water parks. There is so much stuff to do and see in each. I can appreciate the thrill of the rides, but aside from that, the architecture of the buildings and worlds, the artistry of stuff like the electronic Hall Of Presidents and Carousel of Progress. I mean it’s really impressive.

I wouldn’t go every year, but I could see it being something I would want to do 2-3 times in my lifetime.
I went in my late teens and in my early 20s to EuroDisney and Hong Kong Disney. I had an amazing time and I'd totally go again. I still like the movies even as an adult, I like the details they include, the costumes, the 'seeing it in real life' I guess. I'm not a fan of scary rides so I like the imagination that they put in it. I did however go in Winter (yay, icy!) so there weren't queues except for a few rides where it was half an hour. I wouldn't go in summer and face the lines. Wouldn't go in the pandemic. Wouldn't go year after year, maybe every few years if I lived nearby, or if I happened to be in the area.
It goes into the same category as ham radio enthusiasts, Twitch watchers and fans of drag racing.  Seems dull as shit to me but: 'you do you'
‘Baitin’ on Mr Toad’s Wild Ride
I won't be going to Disney for quite a while, but Epcot is a favorite escape. Nothing to do with rides or anything, but walking around drinking and eating at all the different countries is pretty fun.
My partner and I went in March to see the Star Wars stuff (I'm a big fan) and I thought that was fun, but I can't imagine doing it multiple times a year. It's expensive and it's crowded and at least the one in CA, food is done via reservation so if you don't plan for when you're hungry you're gonna have to wait or eat a bunch of churros (which is what I did). We rode the rides, too, but we fast passed them or they required reservations and we didn't get on Rise of the Resistance until like, 9 at night and we waited all day for it. 

I think overall it was a fun experience to have done, I built a lightsaber, antagonized some Stormtroopers and got to "fly the millennium falcon" and we general consider it one of our better trips but for the money, we could have flown back to Greece and I don't know why anyone would want to do it over and over unless it's got a really special place in your heart or you live down the street (as a teenager I was at 6 Flags every weekend). 

What I don't get is the Disney adults demanding the park open during a pandemic. When we were there back in March there were people putting babies on the ground, you can't avoid touching things 8000 other people have touched, it is the definition of a germ factory. You'd probably be safer licking a public toilet.
Most of the vloggers are just self-promoters that are looking for handouts from Disney and are trying to become social media promoters.
for us, we where Vegas people, then we had kids, and now we are Disney people... its like substitute full immersion experience... 

Im from the UK i only go every couple of years, if i was in Florida and could get an annual pass, why not? pubs / restaurants and entertainment!
Trying to desperately cling to an idealized youth?
Not a Disney fan, but I assume they have a low risk appetite. No judgment, but like most "fans," I think they derive more pleasure from nostalgia than other sources. Or maybe those other sources feed back into nostalgia. For example, it's desiged to feed the sense of adventure, achievement, socializing, etc. It ticks all the boxes of engagement for some people, especially if they don't outgrow them or find alternatives.
I mean, they're actually kind of fun in certain circumstances, but I totally get what you're saying. I've been to Disney parks twice in the last 15-ish years, and I intend to go exactly one more time. I'm a bit less of a Disney cynic than I used to be, but I don't get the obsession among adults.

The first time I was in college, and my fraternity had its annual convention in Orlando. Blowing off the convention sessions to hit up the Magic Kingdom with my college buddies was a blast, but entirely because of the company and not at all because of the setting.

Fast forward 15 years, I'm married with two kids. My wife and kids want to go; I'm a complete skeptic. I've taken these kids on "real" trips (Tuscany, France, US National Parks), the idea of fake entertainment for large sums of money doesn't really appeal to me. You know what though, the kids had an absolute blast, and I even enjoyed myself. It's a company that has dedicated itself for decades to understanding how to make a "magical" fun experience, and they actually do a decent job even if you know exactly what they're doing to you.

I intend to go back exactly one more time, for two reasons. First, my younger kid was only 5 when we went, and it will be nice to take her back when she's a little older. Second, I really want to hit up the Star Wars stuff.

But, would I go back year after year, or multiple times in a year, or without the kids? Not a chance. The cost is absurd, the food is terrible, the crowds are insane, and in the end, it's just a glorified theme park. I'd rather spend a lot less taking the kids to a closer, cheaper theme park alternative every once in a while (we're about an hour and a half from Hershey Park, for instance), and save up for more genuine travel experiences.
They enjoy it. Let them. Maybe something you’re into someone else would think is stupid. A friend of mine has invested thousands in a hobby that bores me and his spouse to tears, but he loves it so that’s what matters
A portion of them might be people on the spectrum with a special interest in all things Disney (if they keep going and are just as excited every time).
Animal Kingdom was fun... the rest of them meh.

I don't enjoy rides though.
I dunno, I might go to Euro Disney if I was on a long vacation in Europe. Similarly, I might go to Disney Land if I were in California. 

I would not go to Florida just to go to Disney World. I don't have kids, I don't like rides, and I'm a cheap ass person. All I want is to try Dole Whip and a smoked turkey leg though.
Im in my 30s my company rented out the park to have a gala. It was fun, and food and drinks were free. I probably wouldn’t do it if i had to pay
to talk to cinderella
I’ve never been and have never felt the urge to go even as a child.
I enjoy walking around eating the food. Epcot is really nice and I like the animals at Animal Kingdom, that being said, I don't pay to get in, and won't.
start planning that dope ass 41st birthday party! 


I'm getting invited to a lot of 40th 'surprise' parties right now. A friend's wife said, do you want to do anything for your 40th, I had some things in mind and he said go ahead and do that, surprise me. Another was put together by a woman's bestie and I bet you $10 right now she requested it.

It seems to me like you learned from your family that it was best to just not even ask for what you want. Did your girlfriend think you would like the restaurant? Did you say, hey honey, I don't feel at all like sushi for my birthday dinner, lets go for Italian? Is she used to just dragging you around to do whatever she wants because she doesn't know what you want? It might be a good wake up call to start looking out for yourself.

Happy belated birthday!
&gt; Fast forward 23 years or so. I figured that most of my family that I was still close with, friends, etc would've known about my past. I mean, I always talked about it. Most people know I never had a real birthday party. I honestly thought it was going to be insane. I would've walked into a room, everyone jumps out and screams 'Happy Birthday'!. I still would've been surprised. I probably would've instantly cried like a baby overcome with emotion. That didn't happen. In fact, nothing happened. No phone calls. No text messages. No cards. No cake (or pie). No gifts.

You got your hopes up. Adults very rarely keep track of each other's birthdays absent some kind of familial relationship. Honestly, your expectations/aspiration for your birthday sounds more appropriate for someone turning 20, not 40. 

I'm sorry you had such shitty birthday experiences in your life. They sound like very unhappy memories. 

It sounds to me that this is less about celebrating your 40th birthday, and more about re-capturing some experiences from childhood that you never got to have. 

So find another way to do that. Go to Disneyworld and be a kid again. Or throw a huge party for yourself and invite everyone you know. (You say you want a party where you don't have to invite everyone, but unless your significant other can/is willing to do this for you, you'll have to do it yourself.)

I threw myself a 40th birthday party. I don't usually celebrate my birthday. Just the milestones, like 21, 30, 40.  For my 40th, I found a bar will to give me their upstairs bar for a couple of hours. I invited everyone I knew. They paid cash at the bar, so I didn't have to pay to rent the space. That's all I wanted. Just my closest friends, getting drunk, having a good time. 

Bonus: One of my friends brought a cake. It was just a supermarket cake, but since I expected nothing, I was still really touched. 

It was a great night.
First of all, I'm sorry you're experiencing this.

I wonder if you made it clear to anyone or everyone that you actually wanted a birthday party.  If you're not clear, just hinting, that leaves it open to interpretation and we humans are notoriously terrible at that.  The only way we can make our wants and desires known to others is to speak them.  In this case, say, "I'd love a party" to my wife and tell her, "Don't do it at home, it's too much work, let's pick a place and here's who to invite and the budget to spend."  As for shopping, I make it clear that it's an hour or hour and half for her and then I'm waiting in the car or we meet me at a certain point (although, when she's shopping, she has no notion of the passage of time).  If I go shopping for me, I leave her home. I shop in science, meaning I know what I want and I go get it, not I don't know what I want and I'm looking around and all the bright colors and shiny objects.

&amp;#x200B;

Think back, even though you mentioned this terrible history, did you make it clear you wanted to change that starting right now, this year? Had you discussed guest list, suggest a good gift, or say take me out to that new bistro/steakshouse/fusion/Mexican, etc. place?
Hey man.. HAPPY BIRTHDAY. I would love to say that the same thing happened to me and that we could commiserate together, but nope.. I preempted that disappointment because I knew it would be painful. I was in the middle of a painful and expensive divorce, my mother and sister were states away and financially not very strong, and my kids were young. Didn't really have any close friends nearby since I've moved around my whole life. Coworkers.. Mostly single 20 something's or older super busy family guys. Couldn't see myself celebrating with that crowd.

So I vowed to celebrate my own awesomeness all by myself. I planned and saved money all year long and and turned it into a birthday week.  I bought a couple of dress suits, flew to a different city, got a hotel for the week, and forced myself to go out every day. I forced myself to dress up in those fancy suit and ties and hit the town.  I even dressed up for lunch. I got out of my comfort zone but never got crazy drunk. Whenever thoughts of loneliness would creep in, I forced myself to remember what birthdays are really about. To celebrate the fact that we're still alive for another year. I didn't get eaten by a bear, get dysentery, or the plague. Take that, cruel world!!

I talked to strangers at bars and restaurants and guess what, they will cheer you on and be genuinely happy and proud of you if you tell them what your doing. They'll even celebrate with you. Anyway, point is, I threw myself the party I wanted and it was epic. Remember, only you can live your life, so live and celebrate the way you want to and start preparing for that epic 41st.
Happy birthday! I think at some point you just have to plan your own bday parties if you want them and that's perfectly ok! Relying on others to remember and to do something (even spouses) will lead to disappointment more often than not. Do something nice for yourself and anything else can just be a nice little bonus.
Hey, I'm so sorry you're feeling down and I can feel your pain about wishing you had people who would think to hold you a party. Have you talked to your girlfriend about the way her kind of half-attempt at giving you a special day made you feel? I think you're craving feeling special and loved, it sounds like, and you deserve that.

I'm always weird about my birthdays... I get melancholy and I hate the feeling that I'm supposed to enjoy this day more than usual and if I don't, it feels like a bad omen for the coming year or something. Birthday or not, I think just finding people who appreciate you every day is important! Something to consider - what do you do for your loved ones on their birthdays? Do you treat them the way you want to be treated? Have you ever held a party for someone?

PS) my dad held my mom a 50th birthday party - maybe 40th isn't as big of a deal? You still have plenty of milestones ahead of you. Keep your chin up!
&gt;My girlfriend was awesome. She made a gesture. She took me up to the city (I'm not a hillbilly, we just don't have much in the way of 'shopping' here and I'm more into tech and gaming...everything I'd be interested in is up north). Decided we were going to have a little birthday shopping spree. Turns out it was more of a shopping spree for her to buy makeup and clothes. I visited a couple stores in-between, didn't really find anything I was looking for. She picked the food. All the food was pretty awful. I shouldn't be ungrateful. But I can't stop feeling disappointed. It felt half-assed; or rather half-hearted.

It felt half-assed because it was half-assed. And your gf wasn't awesome. She basically used your birthday as an excuse to treat herself to a shopping spree and eat food of her choosing. Your birthday should have been about you, but she made it about her.

I'm sorry that happened. That was crappy.
So much to unpack here!

1) you're not a social butterfly, but you expect loads of friends and family to go out of their way to plan you a surprise birthday party. Only happens if you're a social butterfly. Or you have that one special person doing all the planning. So stop moping around and plan your bday next year to the way you want it!

2) 40. That's just a number. Us humans get too stuck on meaning of things that are effectively meaningless.

3) over the hill mentality. You better snap out of it. Being 40+ doesn't mean you're downhill from here. You still have a good 40+ years left. Go achieve something great. This should be your prime, where you have money, (some) wisdom, and still retain most of your health.
I had a 40th birthday around the same time you did. I know this feeling you're having and I definitely fell into a funk after, despite my birthday being beautiful to me. I remembered my father turning forty and owning a nice house, having a full family, and a large party with all of his friends. I looked at my life after starting my career over, not having a family or any money at this point, and I got sad. It's a hard age to turn because you are most definitely half-way through or further.

Then I thought about the kind of person my father was and how he barely has any true friends. Most of the friends he had when I was growing up was people he only saw every six months. Even when they were together, it was all small talk. My parents have always seemed distant from each other and at times got very close to splitting up. My dad focused his life on getting stuff, later on became broke, and almost lost everything. 

His life seemed a lot greater than it was to me at the time because I wasn't an adult yet. I couldn't see how desperate suburbia could be. His friends seemed like the greatest friends because adults appeared to be very powerful to me at 10 years old.

For my fortieth, I decided I wanted a simple hangout at a bar with all my people. It wasn't a fancy surprise or anything. I didn't have a cutout of Jessica Rabbit on my front lawn holding a heart that said "look who's forty," but I did have a moment of deep appreciation when I cried to my best friends at the end of the evening telling them how much I appreciated them and how important they were to me. They showed up and helped me through that tough moment, the way they have before and will again. My birthday was simple but it was one of my best because I truly thought about what I wanted out of it instead of checking the boxes I remembered from my father's life, and that turned out to be connection with the people I love.

The thing that sticks out about your post is how lonely you felt during your birthday. It's not that you are ungrateful that your girlfriend tried, it's that she wasn't close to you in the way you needed that night. You wanted her to understand what you wanted and she didn't. You wanted the presence of other people to share this stage of your life with. You wanted that "It's a Wonderful Life" moment of community. You should listen to this feeling and let it guide the second half of your life.
I didn't have a problem hitting 40, perhaps because I was still in denial about not being young any more (I remained in denial until I was 45).

50, on the other hand was rough. There's no way you can kid yourself that you're not middle aged when you hit the half century. It changed my whole outlook on life.
As someone around your age, here's the hard truth - if you act blase about your birthday, then don't be surprised when no one makes a big deal about it. (Even your 40th.) It kinda sounds like you didn't really make any personal effort to make the day into something special.

That being said, I feel for you and am sorry your birthday wasn't great. BUT as someone else mentioned, now is that time to fix that and plan an amazing 41st.

Don't mope. You basically need to be the catalyst that kicks things off. There's nothing wrong with planning your own celebrations or at very least getting the ball rolling. Stop expecting things to be dropped in your lap and start creating the happiness you want around you.

I don't know your background, but remember that in our parent's times social circles were much, MUCH smaller and more intimate. Parties were a BIG deal back then, not anymore.  Social media, texting, evites, etc have made a party a much more casual event where people just say "meh, meet at this bar around 10pm or whatever" instead of actually planning something thoughtful. So if you want a big party - PLAN IT. If you act like you don't care then the people around you will too. Trust me, I've experienced it both ways.

If I could suggest a 41st B-day idea then I'd say do waterslides. I did it for my 35th some years ago and it was AWESOME. I did exactly what you should be doing and planned it myself. Get a big group, bring some vodka in water bottles to hide in the lockers or to mix in your Slurpees. It's great because you all stand in line together and hang out in line chatting until it's your turn to slide. It's fun, easy, and everyone generally stays in a group and gets to catch up outside.

Happy birthday and I'm sorry you're sad about it. Glad you're getting it off your chest but remember to move past it and do things which are going to make you happy instead of wallowing in the negative.
When's the last time YOU planned and executed a big to-do birthday party for one of the MANY folks who neglected you on your Big Day?

IF one is lucky, they get some major birthday wishes at 16 and 21 and  after that, you're on  your own. 

You want a party? Throw one.

(honesty does NOT pay on Reddit)
That sucks. I've always hated birthdays too and found them disappointing, but mine were never as bad as yours. Have you talked with your wife about how important this is to you? When you say that most people know about you not having birthdays, are you sure they understand that means you want them now?

What I've taken to doing is just not celebrating at all. I flat out refuse to tell people when my birthday is, so few of my friends even know. No expectations, means no disappointment. Instead, I just plan something with my partner and tell her what I want to do. She plans the details so there's some surprise, but she knows exactly what I want, so it would be hard to screw up. Luckily, she's pretty amazing so nailed the last one and we had a blast--just the two of us.
I understand how you feel. My birthday is less than a week before my wedding anniversary, less than two before my oldest kid's birthday, and less than three before my dad's birthday. Because of this I haven't really had a birthday "party" in a long time. Even this year it was just me, a steak, a bottle of Jameson, and a blunt. (Not that I'm complaining, it was actually exactly what I wanted.)

However, if I did want a big party I'd probably make it clear to a few different people well in advance. I've found that I tend not to get things if I don't ask for them, since people generally view me (and men in general) as independent. This goes for just about everything, but especially things you wouldn't do for yourself.
Is it really common that adults have (or expect) birthday fuss?  I remember having parties as a small child, but none of my peers expect gifts or a cake for their adult birthdays.

Only on reddit do I hear of grown people having birthday parties.  I've even heard of people in their 20s complaining that their parents didn't get them an iPhone or the like!  Is this behavior really that ubiquitous?
Pretty cool, but what happened to Mumm-Ra’s headdress and Robocop’s helmet? They kind of look weird/naked without their distinctive headwear. You managed to save Splinter’s robe though!

Makes me want to dig up my old toys, but they are probably not in good/showable condition anymore. A child’s lifetime of brutal, pointless war left many of them wounded and broken, inside and out.
Think I had that robot turtle. Also had the ninja turtles hockey game which was really amazing 
That liono came with a sword and a claw. That's why his hands are shaped differently.

Really cool that you still have these.

As a kid I had the thundercats and the base with swivel head that took like 8 AA batteries that shot infrared to cause other set pieces battle damage. 
Some us go to the barcades now instead!
Remember N.A.R.C.?
Is Hulk Hogan, Sergeant Slaughter and the Legion of Doom I think?
The good old days of Arcades ended when these types of games came out as far as I am concerned.

Galaga forever, ftw! 
http://store.steampowered.com/app/465780/New_Retro_Arcade_Neon/

You're welcome.

PSA: Don't show up without MAME roms and some time on your hands for configuration. A VR headset is nice, but not required. 
I LOVED that game!
Introvert here and love my alone time. But can totally relate. I was always the person checking in on people and now that I don't do that anymore it's few and far between communication.
Always looking for new friends feel free to DM me.
Another thing to keep in mind is that the average lifespan of a friendship is somewhere around 5-7 years based on social research. The exact length of time isn’t as important, just understanding that it’s very normal for them to end. 

As a loyal person I had to work hard to embrace this. It has helped me prioritize making new friends, and helped me feel more OK about letting go of past close relationships. I still reach out and keep in contact with some from time to time, and nostalgia for the “good old days” slips in of course. But it’s reduced the negative feelings I used to have when thinking about those relationships wilting.
42 here, and totally.  You go back about 10-15 years ago, I had a nice big circle of friends - partly because I was in a band so we had a solid group of "band friends," as well as people I knew from work, etc.  But as time has gone on, people sort of grow up and have their own lives, and almost everyone I've known here has since moved away.  Most of them not too far away, but now that we're all "serious" grownups, many with kids (including me now), finding time to do our own things is hard enough, let alone trying to arrange meet-ups that work with others' schedules.  I think that's just part of life.    


On the plus side, we are living in the age of social media, so I'm able to keep up with what's happening with my friends, chit-chat at them, comment on their photos, and remain in each other's lives in some way when we don't have the time to travel.
I think about the loss of my friends everyday.  We were very close.   I went through a rough patch and they disappeared.   Maybe they werent real friends anyways.
Yeah...I feel like a lot of it is inevitable though so dont be crushed with guilt or regret. People don't like to admit that the vast majority of our friendships are born of convenience, being in the right place at the right time. Then people move all over to get jobs and good luck getting together frequently when its halfway across the continent or people are getting married and starting families. Sucks,  but that's life.
I have one best friend who lives an hour away and another who lives a 5-hour flight away. We all turn 40 this year. I see the local one a few times per year and the out-of-state one maybe once a year (when there’s not a pandemic). It’s just part of life, I guess. They both have kids, we’re all married and work full time and have other obligations. I accept that we won’t see each other very much. We try to keep up with regular texting. I also focus my energy on local opportunities to socialize - running groups and book clubs and other meetup type stuff. Those people will probably never turn into the same kind of longterm friendships but they’re great for causal friendships and hanging out.
Not really.  I miss being young and having a posse around but I've kept contact up with most everyone I wanted to.  I will say that I lost a couple of friends recently who I really loved and I'm not sure the hole will ever fill.  Then again: maybe its not supposed to...
I’m almost 43. You lose track of people; it happens. Life gets busy and my real friends now? They’re my wife and kids. Pretty much all my old buddies are in relatively similar life stages/ situations. Facebook helps, and it’s truly the only reason I’m still on it. Sure there’ll be like a 5% signal to noise ratio, but periodically I’ll just write a note to someone I was thinking about. Once in a great while, I’ll get a similar reach out. 

I still have a lot of contacts, but the kind of situation like where you just randomly swing by someone’s house and hang out, maybe smoke a joint, whatever? Sadly those days are gone. It was a fun time and I’m glad I did all that, but it was a season of life that’s now ended. I like the new season pretty good, so I really don’t complain. 

So- I guess to answer: Easy to feel blue over it… but remember that you’re in a new and different spot now and appreciate that, if you can.
I feel closer to my friends now more than ever. I also see them less than ever, but we often talk through FB or text.
I had to re-invent my life a bit a few years ago. I started with a list of every hobby/activity I'd ever given any passing thought too. I then really thought about them with stuff like time, effort, cost, socialization and then tried to rank how much I really wanted to do them. Discarded quite a lot quickly, but ended up trying many. In the end board gaming became a thing for me. Now that the pandemic is getting better I'm excited to get back to gaming in person again.

Not trying to say board gaming should be your thing, just trying to lay out my methodology.
It's not uncommon to see posts discussing feelings like this, particularly in this phase of life. If you don't want to get married, don't. Rushing into a commitment like that definitely won't solve any problems. 

Find something you can be involved in that is scheduled. Don't go with the "yeah we should get together sometime" illusion. I can't tell ya how many times I've done that (and had others do it to me) with no actual intention of following through or finding a reason not to a it closes in. 

If it's a scheduled event like church, yoga or sports, gun range, whatever you're into... if it's scheduled you're more likely to go. Then you have people you see regularly and it could help to alleviate that feeling. 

If you have someone in your life that you enjoy spending time with keep doing that. Don't have it in your head that you have to get married but don't count it out as a possibility for the future. If you focus too hard on not wanting to get married you'll just end up avoiding spending time with someone you have feelings for. Be open to it but not jonesin for it and you'll be good.
I'm married with kids and I still have no life. I'm a robot husband and my kids suck the life right out of my though I love them to death.
Get involved in your local community. Do this by volunteering. My city has a volunteer website that connects you with local not-for-profit organizations. There's always events being organized that need volunteers. Figure out how or who you'd like to help and go volunteer. You will meet a lot of people you would never normally be exposed to. You will find friends this way. This is how I met my fiancée six years ago.
You've got some options. What others have said about joining clubs or groups is accurate but it's not the only way. 

Do you enjoy standup comedy? Go to local open mic nights at comedy clubs. In my experience there aren't many people in the audience who aren't aspiring comedians and most people are friendly and willing to strike up a conversation. If/when people ask you if you're going to go up (if you have no intention of doing so) just say you're happy to be out of the house and supporting local comedy. I usually finish it off by telling them I kind of like them and it would be awkward if they suck. Then "hope you're funny!" and walking off. Maybe not everyone could get away with that exit but it's worked for me. 

Another option is to become a regular at a local restaurant or bar. This one might sound weird to some people and it's definitely not the cheapest option but if you look you can probably find a bar or restaurant that's themed with something that you're interested in. If you're a fan of a sports team this gets a lot easier, if you're not it might take a little longer but just showing up some place 2-3 nights a week and learning the staff's names and you'll feel a real sense of community pretty soon. Also don't drink alcohol at a bar that often... at least not multiple drinks. If you show up, sit at the bar and always order an iced tea the staff will remember you more than if you pound bud lites all night, anyway. 

Don't join a cult. It would fix your isolation but you would suddenly have many more problems.
Whatever your interests are, go join groups or go places with those types.  Like if it’s gaming then play online or join discord servers or if it’s sports then consider going out to watch a game or play on a recreational team in your town or city
Aside from my son and immediate family, my favorite people on the planet are my co workers. I have a lot in common with them, and our teamwork means any differences are irrelevant.  


All my other friends live thousands of miles away or have faded....and I'm pretty happy this way.
Hi hazygray,

I've recently had life-altering problems with isolation. I'd suggest gradually calling all the people who used to be your friends - they are mostly still people, and might still be interesting in you and hanging out with you.

It took a mental institute to teach me to get enough sleep while isolated - otherwise bad mental thinks can happen to anyone. Specifically paranoia and hallucinations.

Best wishes and good luck,
hornuser
Life is suffering.
Are you looking for in person social interaction or online?

You need to find what makes you feel at least somewhat not isolated.
Do you have any hobbies? Join an organization revolving around that. Like reading? Join a book club. Enjoy video games? Join a clan (not in person relationship but at least you’ll communicate with people). Enjoy hiking? Find an outdoor club around you. Etc etc etc.
By an innova disc starter pack for $20
Download Udisc 
Find a local League
Start disc golfing. 

But seriously find a hobby you enjoy that others also enjoy for your Situation, one that gets you out. 

Ju jitsu 
Boxing
Group exercise. 

Whatever you want but you need a hobby. 

Sports leagues are great for this.
I was in a very similar situation. I started running.  I now go to a “beer run” every Tuesday and Thursday. I suggest you find an outdoor activity that you like. Find groups on Facebook or meetup and go to group events.
Welcome to late-stage capitalism running parallel alongside population maximization.

Does the Rats of NIMH ring any bells?

Just be happy you aren't one of the 'weird' ones....


https://www.cabinetmagazine.org/issues/42/wiles.php

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavioral_sink
I’m in a similar boat. LTR of 7 years ended a few months back. I tried contacting some old friends to try and re-establish some lost friendships… they are too busy with their lives to make time. It saddens me greatly as we used to have good times and I’d be happy to hear how things have been since we last chatted. I’m not a very social person but I do need / want someone close.
Preferably a few close people but starting from nothing is HARD
I feel the same way... maybe try a small circle of 2 or 3 friends. At this age, I feel way pickier about people than when I was younger. you might too but we are social creatures even a video chat with someone new is refreshing for me though it's not always easy because I am alone a lot and don't have a ton of exciting stuff to talk about...well now I'm just rambling, dm open for new friends :) hope things get a little better!
I hope you don't mind but I sent you a private message because I think we could be friends.
I have bags under my eyes. But I don't sleep much because I have a four year old. My skin looks amazing. And I am nearing the half century mark.

What's my secret? I live in hot ass Arizona. I don't go out in the sun for half the year.
Gaining shitloads of weight will also do wonders for your wrinkles!
I know what you mean. My skin really clears up when I remove my glasses! It's magic!
I had to explain to a 20 year old what the icon for Save was in word 💀
You could do the same thing with pretending to talk on the phone. I have a feeling kids aren't going to extend out their pinky and thumb and put it to their ear. They'll probably pantomime holding a smartphone with the index and thumb
I feel old looking at the woman born in 1981.
Loud Google voice warning.  Jesus
Vertical. Oof.
It's ego. Consider it a filtering mechanism. I always wonder what would happen if I slipped in a "well enough about you, let's talk about me" would they take the hint or?????
I notice this with a lot of men in general, not just single ones. I’ve always liked hanging out with a bunch of guys for this reason, I can just sit back as they all talk over each other and I am not pressured to contribute much. It’s a very relaxing way for an introvert to have company.
I have this tendency. I try to catch myself if using the "I" pronoun too often. Whether in text or in conversation, I've worked at being inclusive in the conversation. But you're right, sometimes it is hard for me to break the routine of "selfishness" and bring someone else along with you.
I think sometimes the guy doesn’t “read the room” if they get into a me speech. I mean sometimes I am genuinely interested in what their saying but if I ask about their work and they start telling me about all the details and it’s a topic i no nothing about then I start zoning.
Yes. I mean I’m a bad liar and sometimes my interest or lack there of shows on my face. I’d be worried if I said something it would come off passive aggressive like, “K, you ask me something now”  or “do you wanna know anything about me?”
I’m pretty sure I’ve been guilty of this. There’s the life trajectory that makes me inward focused, there’s also being out of practice, there’s nervousness, and there’s something like a need to make myself seem worthy.

I’m sure you’re right to note this, but I think it’s an open question of what to do about it.
I've noticed it too, and I'm a single man over 35. I had a date with a woman a couple months ago who constantly talked over me. It's too bad because other than that things were great. But feeling like I didn't matter really killed any spark.

Do you ever sort of sink into a miasma of despair and swear you're going to forget about dating and just focus on whatever else, only to remember that focusing on whatever else is how you got here in the first place?
I used to be a magnet for old dudes (the white haired ones) to come over and talk to me. I have a kind face, which I wish I didn't. They seem to see a young WOC and think, I bet she needs me to mansplain life to her. It's soooooo annoying. It's so fucking creepy and arrogant.

I avoid them like the plague. Headphones and sunglasses.
Maybe that's why they're over 35 and single?

I find that most women like to be asked questions, like to talk, and therefore if a man is incapable of asking questions and showing "interest" then it becomes harder for them to date?

I'm a guy and I fall into the camp of not taking alot, but I do like to ask questions, and listen to others talk.
I'm quite private so I don't do this at all. 

I am however very good at asking the types of questions that you ask - questions that make people talk. It works for me because I get to not talk about myself, and people seem to enjoy getting questions about themselves. 

Like you want them to do.
Maybe you just pick the extroverts to talk to? I'm not yet 35 but mostly single &amp; never married and I always answer the questions succinctly.
My husband is definitely not single and does this. Some people don't know when to stop talking. I finally got so sick of it I pointed it out because it drives me nuts and he's working on it. I don't think anyone ever told these people "You talk too much"
As a Guy, I want to ask you a question but I'm a little too busy letting you know a story or two that demonstrates my critical thinking skills.  Once done with that, you look judgmental so I probably segue from asking you a question to explaining how I'm quirky in order to counter this perceived boring way I just came off.  I feel my quirkiness can be further explained by my childhood upbringing, which bears explanation of where I from and how that is culturally different from the adjacent geographical areas I could have lived in.  But before I finish explaining that, I figure I need to cut it a little shorter so I segue into the fact this is all a simulation and doesn't matter anyway.

Sorry, I'm trying to think of a question to ask you.
yeah that's me i just know how to talk in chunks like i've been in conversations before it's been awhile for me too ... i don't know what i'm like in conversation with a woman but i think i would need to work on selling myself ... and men 35 and older probably should be with women 35 and older so that they don't run into people like you that's my assumption like a 35 year old woman knows what to do with a 35 year old man like i feel sorry for billie eilish knowing what she has to go through now but like you might want to talk about her latest single
Only you could notice that. 

Leading theory explains this as gender typical response to performance anxiety. Men tend to overdo and women under. 

But then again — fuck leading theory.  Stereotypes. 

But don’t get complacent, you’ll miss the one who’s different OP. 

See, how I mansplained everything to you nicely?

How ‘bout them boobs now?

(JK, OP , you know I love and respect you)
have you tried not asking more follow up questions and letting the conversation die?
He's answering your questions because he thinks you're asking for more information.

Read "You Just Don't Understand" by Deborah Tannen. She talks about how men and women talk cross-culturally. It could be that they are single and self-centered, but it is also more likely that there are different communication styles between men and women. Women talk to each other and often ask supportive questions to one another. Men talk to each other and rarely ask questions -- and when they do, they are usually "challenging" questions.
I think it's just a guy thing. I'm a very introverted guy so I tend to do a lot more listening then talking and In  most of my interactions with other men regardless of age or relationship status has been similar to what you're describing. It's annoying and frustrating but I'm not trying to date them sooo... God help you, I couldn't imagine being on the other side of the table. 


You're probably also right that any guy post 35 and never married likely has poor social skills/ability.
&gt; It really seems harder to find quality singles as you get older.

Sure, but this means YOU have to put in more effort as well.

What you describe can happen to men too. I am over 35 and never married. What I have plenty of experience with is debating(clubs) and socializing(career). If a convo doesn't flow two-way it's time to either try harder(engage the shy, clumsy, unaware men) or cut your cord.

Have a good day.
They listen if you say something interesting. Also keep it short and sweet. Like that TV cop would say "Just the facts ma'am, just the facts. "
I wish anyone had an answer honestly. The more life goes on the more I just think it's...not very good. When I was younger it was easier to deal with my negative feelings because I could blame it on something. I'm unhappy because girls don't like me. I'm unhappy because my apartment is crappy. I'm unhappy because my job sucks. Repeat ad nauseam.

Fast forward a few years later and I now have a loving and loyal wife, a nice house in the suburbs, and a cool job brewing beer...and I'm not really any happier. I mean, my day to day life is a little more bearable, and that ugly insecurity that crushed me as a young adult is mostly gone, and I'm grateful for that. But man....life just feels like such a drag. A drag that isn't really worth doing...I mean, why bother. The only thing really missing from my life at this point is financial security, and I just don't find that motivating at all. It would be nice to never have to worry about money, but I'm under no illusion it will fulfill me, because finding love and a good career didn't fulfill me, so why would money? Jeff Bezos may have gone to space but he's still going to watch his loved ones die before he dies himself. That's just life. Nothing can change it.

I am thankful I can still feel some moments of joy. I still have good friends, I work out somewhat consistantly, the wife and I take nice trips sometimes. The truth for me though is that the actual day to day grind is just really shitty. And I think it's especially shitty for people like you and me who are born with this introspective hole that makes us constantly ruminate over the existential pointlessness of it all. Why do anything? is something that haunts me at all times, and while I'm still able to handle my shit on a basic level, I'm never inspired to go beyond that. Because why? I hope to find an answer to that question one day but deep down I know it doesn't exist, and deep down I think you do too. Ultimately though...I'm here and I will keep trying to figure it out, because that's all that can be done.
Maybe it's time to define who you are. Start reading some psychology, philosophy, some spiritual literature.

We are moved by various forces our entire lives. Most people never really investigate the matter, ask why they do or did these things (job, school, house, partner, etc).

Trouble is we let these forces define us first when we should be asking who we are first.
Having taken care of two sets of parents, it became obvious to me that life generally becomes a progressive set of diminished expectations.  How difficult that is for you depends so much on how much you accept that.

Right now I'm 67, in pretty good shape, swim 70 laps a day 6 days a week.

In general I'm happy, but I can see already how things have changed.  I have less and less patience with people and drama.  Spending time alone or with my husband is enough for me.  We planned fairly well financially, so I don't have worries there, and that would probably have changed my psychological state a lot if I had to struggle going forward.
To me, it sounds like you are describing the symptoms of DEPRESSION.    
I've gone through bouts of it in my life, and when it happens to me, I don't get SAD really, I just lose interest in everything. And I become my own worst critic.   
Maybe think about talking to a doc and seeing what they think. Plenty of natural things you can take that can help (a big one that people overlook is vitamin D. Most people don't get enough and it causes depression).
&gt;There's just a lack of potential I feel. There are no more major milestones

Well, not with that attitude. If you're in the position to do it, travel. Explore. Expand your horizons. If your world and life are quite small then of course you feel boxed in with nowhere to go. Take classes, pick up something new and challenging. If you lean into not having a future, you will find exactly that. Better yet, volunteer. Get outside your own head and spend time around people different than you.

I'm going on 46, I didn't marry until I was 39 but together we've traveled and moved a bunch, and are about to move (hopefully) one last time to a dream location. That's not a life for everyone, but the point is that I didn't stop moving. I might even go back for my Masters and change careers, who knows? But I loved being single as much as I love being married, I LOVE getting older and learning more about the world and myself! Aging really is a blessing, priorities and friendships become so much clearer.

Learning and expanding comes with each new day, not to sound trite, and the only limits you encounter are the ones you allow.
Time to turn away from an inward focus “what will make me happy” to an outward focus “what can I contribute to others”. Excitement, exploration, new experiences are not the only way to have a rewarding life.
at least for me. 30's went exactly like this and just got worse. Almost feeling like you have no purpose. eventually my wife and I had a child at 38 and it certainly turned things around. For someone who went 38 years with no child I must say that I feel like adult life doesn't really get in full swing until this happens. at least from my perspective. I feel your pain
I'm not too sure we're supposed to deal with it. Most of us were born to labor and die. So that's what I do. Labor, fuck off, try to capture some of the moments where I feel happy/active/ok, and then go back to laboring and fucking off, until I die. Am I ok with that... naw, not really... but the universe doesn't really give a shit about my ego or desires in the first place.
It sounds like you need a different perspective. A different way of framing the world. Personally, I found it very hard to maintain any level of personal positivity (and to an extent I still do) until a couple of years ago when I incurred a serious injury that almost left me paralyzed. Ever since then I have been aware of how close I was to losing what I usually take for granted: the ability to sleep and walk without pain. 

I can't suggest a remedy for melancholy but if I may, I would recommend reflecting on what you do have and how it could be worse. Hopefully you have a roof over your head, you do not go to bed hungry that often, I hope you too can sleep and walk without pain. These are not guarantees, many in the world do not have this, or have to endure other suffering.

Focus more on what you have and how far you have come. Focus less on what could be and what is coming up in the future. Try to find a level of self acceptance in the present. 

Also if you have the means, consider a psychedelic experience ;)
Thank you for sharing this. I am struggling though this feeling too. Right now I’m just trying to stay healthy and see if it’s just a phase to ride out.
Birthday Parties
Quit drinking, get the rest of your coping mechanisms out into the open and examine yourself more honestly.
I've been fat all my life, so I'm already acquainted with the aches and pains of old age.  I've never been attractive so it's not like I miss my looks.

Jealous?
[deleted]
Don't have an answer for you, since I'm trying to figure this out for myself, but if you do figure something out I hope you will give an update as to what you figured out.
I try to remember that I'm going to die at any moment and that there are very few things that truly matter in life.
Honestly, I only feel this way about dating men lol. Everything else still seems novel and interesting. Moisturizer with retinol in it actually works. Everyone should moisturize
Heya!

It sounds to me like you're thinking and worrying about **everything** at once. 

My suggestion: pick one thing. Pick a single (possibly small-ish!) thing to focus on, and "fix" it. 

Take however long it takes. Don't set a timescale for yourself, even in your head. Don't stress about it - just methodically knock down any obstacles **as they crop up**. Don't think too far ahead. 

And then ... re-evaluate. Work out the next **single** thing that you want to work on. And rinse and repeat :-)
I'm a 34F also and I have the problem of I'm exactly where I planned to be and I absolutely hate it and feel trapped. But here's some things to try to keep in mind:

Life can change in an instant. And just like yours changed on you, it'll probably change again. You just have to get through this rough patch.

Give change some opportunities by putting yourself out there a bit. Things won't change unless you find an avenue to take that change, so try new things. Get out and connect with nature, join activities, classes or clubs. Volunteer at an animal shelter. If illustration/design is a hobby, challenge yourself to do an actual project or take a small job from some place like fivvr. It may turn into a whole new adventure.

As for kids and love: that is a tough road. I'm sorry to hear about your endometriosis and love troubles. But first, I've known two people with that condition who were actually surprised with successful pregnancies. But even if that's not possible, kids can be in your life via adoption or step children. Volunteering for a big sister program. Or no kids at all. You don't need kids to have a fulfilling life. 

The same with love. You can find love at any moment. I had a friend who was single into her late 40s. Had 2 jobs to support herself, struggled to pay for a small house. Made plans for her and her mom's future, to live together in a condo. She was never expecting love. Then by chance she met a man and they are so great together. They got married when she was 49 and they travel, go biking, are out at restaurants multiple times a week. 

Hang in there, OP. 
its so hard to not compare yourself with an older version of yourself or those around you. I fall into this trap continuously. its easy for us to see all we have- but even easier to see everything we don't have. I wish I could offer you advice- but instead, I'll just assure you that you're not alone in how you're thinking and feeling and hope for right now, thats enough.
[deleted]
i think its important to stop and ask yourself what is really, truely, important. what is that one thing that will make everything else okay. find that then go for it. it sounds like your trying to fix everything at once. if its the time you have as an atractive female, well id say your worrying about nothing. its a factor yes, but you really dont want to be with a guy whos biggest desire in life is a barbie doll. 
Try to always look on the bright side of things. Sometimes we are up and something we are down. You get to spend a lot of time with your mom. My parents are overseas and I only get to see them once a year if I can afford the tickets.
You might also like to ask your question in 

 /r/AskWomenOver30 

and 

/r/RedditForGrownups 
No interest after a 2016 layoff? Sounds like one of three things is your issue: Polish up your resume, polish up your interviewing skills, and really study the companies you are applying to. 

www.glassdoor.com is a quality site that will help you out a lot. No offense, but you sound like a pity party. Fuck what others think, make your way and fight for it. Good luck.
You'll be okay. :) 
Maybe you are in the wrong place for what you want to do/be. Especially if you are in a small field, you might want to move for a good job and try to meet people in a new environment. In times in my life when I felt like you did, finding a good job somewhere else and moving really helped.
It sounds like you need to focus on yourself. A relationship isn't going to solve your problems. 

Looking back isn't going to do you any good either, focus on improving your future. Have you been looking for jobs outside of your current location? If you think education will help you, what about taking online classes? 

Try new things and meet new people with meetups. Say yes to things even if you think you won't have a good time. Be adventurous. These things will improve your self esteem and will make you see that there are more things in life than just a job and a SO. 

Happy people attract other happy people, and this is how your life improves. You may find someone who can help you with your job. You may find someone that you like. But you can't go your life doing things only to achieve those goals. People will smell your desperation and won't connect with you.
&gt; I honestly worry about my age. I am, not to be conceited, on the ok-looking side - but I worry all that will go away soon 

Do you not smoke? Do you eat "real food, mostly plants, not too much" as Michael Pollan has it? Do you exercise? Do you get 7-8 hrs of sleep almost every night? Do you not have insane stress? Do you not abuse drugs or alcohol?

If you do all these simple right things (which you should be doing for your health anyway), chances are great that you will continue to be "on the ok-looking side" for a long time. I know several women who are 60 (and untouched by any "help") who are still looking and feeling great. And many examples from 34 to there. Please don't waste being in your 30s and attractive by feeling sorry for yourself.
I'm a decade older than you, have had the relationship/career bombs hit me not once but twice.  

A few things I've found that help:

* panic and freak out... for like 5-6 minutes.  Go ahead and get it all out, worst case scenario and everything. (Mine is "will be old, homeless, alone, a greeter at Wal Mart like those old men are)
* start with one thing and hone in on it.  I was an illustrator for the WSJ for years until the recession hit and I was cut pretty quick (along with all my other freelance clients.  During that time I started learning code and now I'm a software developer.  That was a 6-8 year span
* Relationships: two long ones... almost both in the 8 year range.  They ended badly (one being an alchy, the other and I just didn't work out).  It left me devastated... but I kept trying and now for the past 4 months I've been dating someone very lovely and am extremely happy.

Life throws a lot of shit at you (a lot).  Fortunately, there are towels and disinfectants to wipe it off with and keep going.  For me, things got better in little chunks.  I'm sure I'll get hit with other stuff in life, it'll suck and I'll continue to move on.  

The one I struggle with (at times) is being 5 years away from 50.  that's a hard one to swallow because I still feel like I'm in my 20s.

Therapy helps, too.  
This kinda sounds like the plot to bridesmaids
[deleted]
I was able to get a loan for the down payment. It's part of a federal housing program. Definitely talk to a mortgage broker to see if you qualify and if it's something you want to take on.
Most folks I know who are my age (35-45) who were able to buy their home did so because of:
- generational wealth - gift of down payment from parents 
- no student loan debt - gift of college education from parents, which also meant they had a good paying job 
- lived with their parents for a bit in their 20s or 30s and were able to save money (so, again, help from parents) 
- worked in very high paying industries (often with good stock benefits so they had investments) and didn’t buy until well into their 30s 
- bought a very cheap home in a very cheap area and spent the next 10+ years doing home improvements
FHA loan. $3,500 down per 100k
To be completely honest, there is no way I could afford my current house if it wasn’t for the money I made off the first two houses I owned. 10+ years ago when I bought my first house, home prices in my area still hadn’t recovered from the crash a couple years prior. I didn’t have much savings back then, but I only paid a little over $100k for that first house so the down payment was relatively small (I think I put 5% down). Made a good amount of money when I sold that house, and more or less repeated that process with the second house. 

The timing of everything just so happened to work very much in my favor. Looking back, it was like 10% good decision making, 20% the fact that the first two houses were fixer-uppers that I did tons of work on, and 70% dumb luck.
Steady job, low (sometimes painfully low) expenses, and opportunity. And when all those things come together, it's still taking a giant leap. Keep saving, maybe look at moving to a lower cost-of-living area where buying a house is much less difficult. Also look at undesirable neighborhoods...
Also why are so many houses so damn big?! The supply problem seems especially bad for smaller homes.


Small houses are flying off the market way too fast - not to mention the competition from property management companies looking for 2BR rentals &amp; AirB&amp;B doing the same. :/
I have always had an account at a totally separate bank from my usual banking, and don't keep any debit cards or checks for it. I have a direct deposit set up to go into it that I have increased over the years as my salary has increased. In this way, I forget it ever exists for the most part, and can't easily access it to pay other things. I used it first for my downpayment on my house, and then have used it over the years as it has built for various things like major home renovations, or dumping it into an investment, etc.

You can start with something as small as you need to. $25 a paycheck, $50 a paycheck, whatever. Increase it as you go. You realize eventually you adjust your living expenses and don't notice that amount missing.
What about FHA? I did that and it cost me less than 1200 to buy my house 
A year later, I had enough equity to convert to a conventional loan.
&gt;And yet, I am increasingly in the minority for my age being someone who has never owned. How is that? How are people affording their houses? How did you save for your first?

I'm in the UK so things might be slightly different here, though house prices are still insane. The only way people seem to do it here is as couples - a single person just has no hope of buying on their own without serious financial assistance from someone else. As a couple you can rent a 2 bed place for only, say, 30% more than a 1 bed, but you have double the income. You also share bills and lots of other costs, meaning saving is kind of a possibility.

My wife is the one exception to that rule that I know because she bought her (small, 1 bed) flat on her own, single, without any *direct* financial help from anyone. But she did manage it by living with her parents for a few years while she saved every penny, which still counts as help in a way. By the time I met her I'd spent over £35k ($50k USD) on rent in my life already... I wish I did the same as her and never rented. But that's just not an option for some of us. Together we did up her flat and sold it for a decent profit, allowing us to buy our house. Starting small with a more affordable flat was important; I have friends who could have bought a 1 bed flat a few years ago, but they decided to hold out for a 2 bed or a house... now they're priced out of the market altogether.
I bought my first home (condo) at 33. Down payment matching program helped, but I didn't have a lot of extra cash at the time. I did take some money (a few thousand) out of my IRA - I had to pay taxes but not penalties because I was using it to buy my first home. I didn't make any major improvements to that home either, because it wasn't going to be an investment, it was just like paying rent to myself. I paid to keep things in working order, and replaced only what I needed to.

I sold that place this year, and was able to upgrade to a much nicer condo. I think that's how people do it - you buy what you can truly afford the first time around, and get the help you need from first-time homebuyer programs, and it keeps getting easier because you're able to roll the equity into new homes when you sell the previous one.
We never managed to save, in the end we could only afford it from work that came with substantial stock vests.
Career oriented job, save, invest and research.
VA Home Loan made it possible in my 20s. I had a crappy job at that time, but DINK lifestyle.

Got a loan for the total amount, paid something like $7k in closing costs and that was that. Nice low interest rate, no down payment, no PMI, "enjoy your house." Could have rolled the closing costs into the loan but didn't need to.

It's a nice benefit, for sure.

Edit: It may be "more expensive" than renting if you look just at the expenses, but you're also building equity in an appreciating asset. Where I'm at on the amortization much of my mortgage payments are going to the bank for interest, but what I pay against the principle I think of as paying myself. 

And valuation is up by more than I've paid in interest, taxes, and fees in that timespan
Took me 10 years to save enough for a down payment.
Managed to retire from enlisted military without producing or acquiring any dependents, got my finances straightened out a few years before (and while it was close they never actually got all that bad) so I had great credit, got my VA loan through a military-friendly lender so no down payment or PMI, and was Actually Retiring (most military retirees don’t) so I could shop by target price and type of area (including avoiding high property taxes or HOAs) instead of needing to be near a workplace or job market.
There are options:

-USDA loan https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/mortgages/usda-loan

-FHA loan https://www.hud.gov/buying/loans

-VA Loan (if applicable)

-State down payment assistance programs https://www.hud.gov/buying/localbuying

-Conventional loan with PMI then cancel your PMI when you reach 20% equity in your home
That's were you're dead wrong. My mortgage and all other expenses are about $600 a month less than even the smaller homes that rent in my neighborhood. 

My girlfriend's townhome....about $800 cheaper than what renters in her neighborhood.

Oh and here's the other catch to renting at least here....the landlords raise the rent about 10% every year if you renew your lease.
[deleted]
I took some from my savings and most from a 401k loan. I only put 5% down on our house because that’s all I could afford. My wife and I were super lucky in that our landlords decided to sell the house and offered it to us. We live in a really hot market and not having to deal with it was an opportunity we couldn’t pass up, even though we weren’t planning on buying a house soon and it was sort of short notice. Plus they took good care of the house and I had lived in it for 5 years, so there were few surprises as far as it’s overall condition. The price of our house has gone up almost $100k in 3 years, so it was worth all the stress.

I honestly don’t know how people my age do it, though. My wife and I make good money for our age and it was still a stretch to get the money for a downpayment.
I saved my own money for a down payment and have a conventional loan. I have a LOT of student loan debt (140k) and my husband and I make about 110k~ combined. At the time, the area I live in had much cheaper houses. It's not impossible for someone my age, early-mid thirties, to have purchased their house entirely on their own.
I was in that same boat some years ago.  And being in the Bay Area it's even more of a challenge.  At 33 years old, a couple things lined up at the same time that allowed me to save.  I had finally paid off my student loan debt, credit card debt, my car and I had finally landed a good paying job. (income is key of course) Once all that was behind me, I lived extremely frugal.  I found a room for 600 dollars a month with all utilities included.  I didn't make any extra purchases.  I ran that car into the ground, ate cheap, didn't buy any toys, quit smoking and didn't go on any trips that all my friends were going on.  Anything I did buy was all on a credit card that I would pay off every month to rebuild my ailing credit score.  It didn't take long to get that 3.5 percent down payment for an FHA loan, but I saw how quick my bank account was inflating and realized that I could achieve 20 percent for a conventional loan.

Six years later at 39 years old I was able to buy something decent in a decent neighborhood with 20 percent down and remain in the Bay Area while all my friends who SPENT SPENT SPENT are moving away being priced out.  Any other friends that bought something did indeed get help from parents.

it's completely do-able, with a lot of sacrifice and hyperfocus on the goal.

Also, my friend just bought a home with an FHA.  Shopped around for a lender and got into a home a little outside of the Bay Area with 9600 dollars down.  That is very achieveable in a shorter term scenario.

Good luck!
Couldnt have done it without parents help..


Bought a condo 9 years ago at 29. $98K sell price. Houston.

Parents lent me $10K, I paid them back within 2 years. I put in $12K of my own for down payment and closing.

They paid for college from what they inherited from their parents. (All grandparents died by the time I was 8, mom's only brother died and was single so she inherited that whole side's wealth)

Income at the time was $65K, single.

Bought a $380K house last year, married with household income of $190K.

Put $30K down plus closing. 

Sold the condo for $130K, owed $55K. Paid off both cars and put a chunk in an index fund.
Am 42. Have nice home. Our first was financed via down payment from my folks, and a low down payment FHA/ first time buyer loan at that. It was $120k, but that was nearly 20yrs ago. Couple years later we sold with very little gains made, moved to a Fannie Mae  flip/ foreclosure sale (they made it livable/ refreshed at a superbasic level) on acreage in the woods. $116k. Spent  14-15 years there, probably got back all the money and some of the time I’d put in it, turned that into money on where we live now. 

So: family gift (small but not nothing either), buy a real dump first house or two, sweat equity, time, and luck.
You can get a conventional loan with as little as 3 percent down.  The advantage of conventional over FHA is that eventually PMI will go away with conventional (once you get to 20 percent equity). There are definitely pros and cons to home ownership so make sure you're ready, both fiscally and mentally!
I bought way less home than I could "afford" when I purchased in 2017. I didn't love my neighborhood, but it was safe. The HOA fees were pretty low, and I was able to save money each month because the mortgage + HOA fee was less than renting in the same area. Purchase price was $112k in a major city.

For the down payment by taking money out of my IRA - I paid taxes on it, but no penalties. I was able to use a first-time homebuyer program through my lender where I put down 2.5% and they matched it, for a total of 5%.

Four years later (this last spring), I sold the condo for $50k more than I owed on it, rolled that into a down payment for a new condo, and bought in a neighborhood I liked that had the amenities I wanted - balcony, parking spot, close to restaurants and stores, near the lake.

It was a combination of timing, and being realistic about what I could afford in 2017. I would not have been able to buy this condo without having that previous one.

I'm single, so I also don't need a ton of space. I think sometimes people think they need this giant, single family home with 4 bedrooms and a huge yard, and that's not realistic for a lot of people.
Little late to this, but we moved to the country and got a USDA Rural Development mortgage. It is 0% down and designed to bring people to low population areas. Of course this naturally means you will work away from a city center and would need to commute or telework.
I bought in my early 20s cuz i saw prices going up and I was afraid I wouldn't be able to afford in my 30s. I used my entire savings while working minimum wage. I started working when I was 14. I didn't save to buy I home, I saved just to save since I had nothing else to pay for since I had just finished paying off my school. I'm 30 now. If I were to buy the same home now, even though I get paid between double and triple what I used, I'd probably struggle. I put mine up for rent so that when I'm ready it would feel even more affordable. Best thing is to do things like this early cuz it's an investment.
I’ve read articles where younger people rent, but save up for a vacation home. You can do an Air BnB to earn money, and gain equity in the home with other people’s money. It’s a thought.
Timing.  I bought my house during the last real estate crash.  I have a decent sized house on an ok sized plot of land for my area and I paid just a little over 100k for it and have a 4% interest rate.  The house needed (and still needs) work, and there's a lot of things I don't like about it and I have to fix, but if I was looking to buy now there is NO WAY I'd be able to afford anything despite making 2x what I made when I bought my house before.
39m. No kids. Wanted kids when i was younger. Never met the right person. Now that i have, i dont want kids anymore. Turns out being able to afford things is really handy. Kids are 'spensive.
I never wanted kids and so I choose not to have kids and am happy with the decision; it's really as simple as that. I think asking people for advice or validation regarding the pros and cons of having kids is the wrong way to go at it because at the end of the day only you know what will make you happy. You will never have FOMO or regrets as long as you know what you want in life and do what it takes to get what you want in life.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
38M, no kids, never wanted or even considered them. My 35F wife fully agrees. Now due to some health issues we can't biologically have them even if we wanted.

We both like (like, not love) kids though. We like having nieces and nephews over for a night or two. Get to play legos, video games, board games. But also they go away and we sit quietly for a few hours embracing the lack of constant noise. 

There is no question that we will retire earlier and more comfortably than any of our friends with kids. There is no question we have more frequent and slightly nicer vacations. No question that we just have less stress in our life.

On the flip side, it's clear how much my friends and family love and enjoy having those kids. How much joy they bring watching them grow and change and helping them become their best self.

Lots of pros and cons on both sides.
45 this year, had my vasectomy at 29.  Only regret was waiting that long.  I was never a person who enjoyed children or being around them, I thought I would warm to the notion as I got older and wanted to get married and have a family.  Instead, I got only more set in my ways and mindset and realized I didn't want any of those things.  

Mind you, I am in a nearly 18 year committed relationship we just chose not to get married, if ain't broke and all that.  But neither of us wanted kids so...here we are.

For me, it's worked out great.  I was able to leave a well paying corporate job and pursue a somewhat risky career (real estate) where the pay is sometimes scarce, and I wouldn't have been able to do that if I'd had a family to provide for.  That's just one thing that comes to mind immediately but for myriad reasons being childfree is something in which I have no regrets.
in an ideal world i would have wanted to, but it's not an ideal world

i have other family and i find meaning in helping to make sure they're on a good footing for whatever comes...being unencumbered with childcare responsibilities and being a 'spare hand' has the potential to be quite useful for my family

i know that not having kids means i need to fill my life with other pursuits for myself though...i haven't figured that part out yet
Occasionally, I'll feel a pang of sadness that I'm bringing the male line of my family to a close. Since climbing out of the primordial swamp, my ancestors have done enough to survive and procreate through the millennia until it came to a shuddering stop with me. Then I finally manage to fall asleep, bringing that particular existential crisis to a close, and the next day's reality clarifies my decision. 

It's also the most environmentally beneficial thing I can do.
I'm one of them. Considered marriage at one point, but it didn't work out. No kids, live alone. Sometimes it seems okay, and sometimes I feel like Bill from *King of the Hill*. Most of the time, I feel pretty cynical and pessimistic about life and the future, and feel like bringing a child into the world would be cruel. But other times I do feel a tinge a regret about not having a child or family of my own.
33yo here, wife is 35 ans we sway between yes and no.

Im also curious what people think. Im not religious at all, but some part of me feels the need to leave something behind that is me when i die (that feeling of mortality really starting to kick in now lol).

So far, many friends have children while me and the wife enjoy spending on our house and travelling everywhere. I like having money and im aware it will be super expensive
Some days I want to get married &amp; have kids, some days I really don't. Would be nice if my brain could actually make its mind up at some point.
I wanted it when I was younger.

After realizing that I don't have the necessary mental state for it and that my life, as it is nowadays, wouldn't accommodate the needs of a child, and the state the world is right now, I forgot about it.

Part of me really wanted to feel what it is like to be a father, but having a child on this desire alone would be VERY  irresponsible and egotistical.
It all comes down to your experience and how much you put into “family.”

At younger ages, you can create fulfilling social circles and have incredible experiences with your kids that pay off in your older years as you remain incredibly close to them. 

Or your kids can be seen as expenses and commitments that you can’t shake. They are incredibly costly and time consuming with needs that are almost always immediate. It is really like another job that you pay to do. In the long run, this view will likely lead to not having great relationships with your kids and result in a more superficial relationship when you are older.
40's  married. child free.  I like kids once they are old enough to have a personality and not require their ass to be wiped.  But I am very glad I don't have them.  It affords me the ability to do things I couldn't do if I had kids and since I believe the whole world is going to hell in a hand basket, means I don't have to worry about their non-existent future.   No regrets.
I decided to put all of that behind me because I was depressed and didn't have my life together. Now I'm in my early 30's, realized I've kind of screwed myself over. Don't have many friends with kids yet, but also only have 1 friend left who's also single. I really underestimated how friends who are in relationships go into that phase where they kind of isolate you from events and everything becomes about being in couples or whatever. It's kind of bizarre, but I've been leaning into just taking up habits/hobbies which also exclude them like peaceful hikes on my own.
Early 50s male here; no kids, no regrets. I assumed I'd want them when I was younger but it didn't really become an issue until my mid-30s with a stable partner. Then we thought about it a lot and decided that it was a bad idea.

Having extended family in really bad situations with their kids (drugs, jail, teen pregnancy, violence, etc.) made it clear how bad things can go (and that shit doesn't magically end at 18). Why take the risk? Life is really good for us now; why possibly ruin it?
I have some disabilities and a trauma history.  I decided young that I would need all my "spoons" and energy for myself, that I didn't have it to give to any kind of dependent.  I've seen some friends of mine who are in a similar boat as me have kids and it just really destroys their health.  They can't take care of themselves and struggle to give "their all" to their kids.  I'm glad I chose myself, I think in my situation it was the responsible thing to do.
38m. Just had a vasectomy about 6w ago. My partner has an 8y old, she doesn’t want any more kids, I’ve never wanted any of my own. I spend every second weekend with she and her son, and that makes me happy.

The part I found difficult was dating women who were in the “I don’t know” camp. Being a committed “no” was a red flag more than once, and I didn’t want to find myself 6y into a committed relationship with someone who changed their mind on wanting children.
My husband. He got a vasectomy a few years ago. He seems pretty happy with our childfree life. (For the record, I am happy with it too.)
Late 40s M and I thank all the gods and fishes every day that I chose to never have kids. My wife and I have a great life where we both work hard, travel often, relax frequently, and go out to try new experiences whenever possible.

I'll also be retired in less than 5 years, and will enjoy the rest of the life ahead of us.
41M here. Been married for almost 10 years and still happily childfree. 

I’m still a bit scared that when I’m older I won’t have anyone to spend time with. Not that having kids guarantees that, but it helps. Also all of my friends lives now revolve around kid activities. I don’t get invited to many kid centric events. At one time I was happy about that, but now am starting to feel like I’m missing out. It’s not like the adults aren’t conversing amongst themselves during these events.
47, Married

I never really wanted kids, for several reasons, the main one being that I was afraid I wouldn’t be a great dad. I like my alone time, and while I like kids (I’m a pretty good uncle, if I say so myself) I don’t love them. I was also not completely opposed to the idea, but it was definitely not an enthusiastic yes. 

My wife did want kids, so we did try, but unfortunately we had a miscarriage and it turned out that it would not be feasible. 

I’m now thinking about getting a vasectomy.
I have realised I can’t have my hobbies and kids and I prefer my hobbies. People with kids will deny this but you can see from their actions that it is true. 31m.
Not the main demographic for question but 32/F here. No kids and don't want any. No regrets. I just told my mom the other day that I was so grateful that I didn't have any kids and what a nightmare that would be. I am so grateful that I only have myself to look after. I want sleep, quiet, and money -- with kids you get none of that. XD
My wife and I are in our 40's. No regrets. 

The best part? We get to live our lives how we want to for the most part. Some people choose to have kids and that's great for them. I don't have the desire and I've passed the point of caring about what other people think about my/our decision. 

Advice? You need to find your own path. All any of us here can do is tell our own story, but it's up to you to navigate your life. Having kids is one of those subjects that brings people with strong and passionate opinions out of the woodwork and many of them just love to go on and on about how you need to do this or that in order to live a good and meaningful life. It sure is easy telling someone how wonderful, important, or meaningful something is if you don't have to worry about taking responsibility from the results. Anyone telling you what choice you should make has no business doing so unless they're also going to shoulder some of the burden.

It's ok to be nervous or scared about making such a decision. I wish more people would give serious thought to what it really means to bring a new human being into existence. It's not a toy, a pet, nor does having kids bring the promise of lifetime companionship or unconditional love. Your responsibility as a parent doesn't suddenly lift on their 18th birthday. Parenthood can be physically, mentally, and emotionally challenging- with no guarantee kids will grow up to be functional members of society or upstanding and decent. I'm sure plenty of people here have some story about someone they know who did everything right and yet things didn't turn out so well. 

It's also ok to change your mind. At the end of the day, you're the one who will have to face the consequences of whatever choice you make. All you can do is try to make the best decision that's right for you.
My husband doesn't do reddit but here's what he says: 55, never wanted kids, funded 2 terminations with past girlfriends. He met me (F47) and we got married when I was 40. I considered kids briefly in my 30s with my ex but decided not to. No regrets for either of us. In fact' lately we've talked about it and are so glad we didn't in light of the state of the world. Especially glad we didn't have kids in the U.S., which seems to care little for their future. 

Everyone we know with kids is, understandably, a nervous wreck. I really feel for parents right now.

Anyway, our marriage is happy and we have nieces and nephews if we want kid-time. If you have any specific questions I'll pass them on!
You guys are the reason they overturned Roe v Wade!!! Its all YOU GUYS'S fault!! Mine too cuz I'm kidless!! 😂😂
36. I have never really been interested in having children. I dont have any advice except that if you find a woman who is of a similar mind go ahead and marry her.
 From Car Warriors #2, published by Epic Comics in 1991. By Chuck Dixon, Steve Dillon, Phil Winslade, Jade Moede, Steve Buccallato &amp; Joe Rosas.
&gt; **Clark**:  We can't close our eyes to the plight of the cities. Kids, are you noticing all this plight? This will just make us appreciate what we have.   
(gun shot heard outside the car)   
**Clark**: Roll 'em up!  

&amp;#x200B;
If you like this video you MUST listen to this commentary of it called [the first follower](https://youtu.be/fW8amMCVAJQ).
I’ll have what he’s having
I remember discovering Santigold after seeing this video 12 years ago.
Every revolution begins with a single act of defiance.
Thank you for posting this!
This is delightful
Hands down my favorite video on the internet
We have extremely similar musical tastes and are very close in age. I ran into the same problem, but got out of it by doing the following. 

I listen to my discover weekly playlist on Spotify religiously. I then take the 1-3 songs that I really love from that playlist and create a separate playlist, that after a few years has grown to over 400 songs. 400 amazing songs by bands I had never previously heard of. I am very grateful that I don’t feel stuck in the music past anymore. There is a ton of new music that you will enjoy if you expose yourself to it. Godspeed.
seriously, you need to get on Spotify

input your tastes and with time if you let it, it will introduce to you more of what you like

i lost interest in music in my late twenties like you, but Spotify completely reignited my interest...new music is actually so so important
I was buying a new car over the weekend, and the salesman did the thing where he acclimated me to the controls/radio before I drove the car off the lot. Just something this dealership does. He started in on the fancy radio and asking me what stations I'd like programmed in and I just said 'I'll just stop you right there. There isn't *anything* on the radio I care to listen to' and proceeded to tell him I mostly just do podcasts and audio books these days.
You grow up. You have other concerns. You can't keep up on EVERYTHING, because there's more things. Some have to go. Any music past about 1994 and my focus gets VERY narrow. Anything past 2004 and I have no idea at all.  

BUT, I know every movie, big and small, because I REALLY like movies, and they're basically the thing I do and learn about because I enjoy it. 

Other people I know are that way about music but have no idea what's going in movies or TV. They're aware there's this whole superhero thing going on, but they could care less. They're first in line, though, to see some little band from downstate they heard online who no one has ever heard of. 

also, at 35+, you are no longer in the coveted 18-35 demo that most of pop culture is aimed at. Revel in your anonymity, and then lament when you realize the tv shows you watch are all sponsored by Supplemental Health Insurance companies and boner pills.
Yes! I know many people who refuse to open their ear to anything new. 

To me, it’s “ossification”. 

My mother and stepfather wore me out on bands/artists like Billy Joel, James Taylor, ZZ Top. And classic rock stations play the same 20 songs over and over.

I embrace music old and new. Like others have mentioned, both Spotify (and Pandora) are great for introducing yourself to new artists (and uncovering some classic gems that never received any air play). 

There’s too much variety to dismiss everything  new as unworthy of consideration. 

Music evolves...so why not evolve with it?
I think when you’re young you’re a blank slate and there’s plenty of room in your head for new experiences. When you’re older you have a whole lot of music in our catalog already and it takes more impressing for something to be worth your time. I still find new Music occasionally but I don’t expose myself to the zeitgeist and see what sticks like I did when I was younger.
I think it's more by then that you have less time due to responsibilities to explore, and less people around you who define themselves by their musical tastes. I stopped listening to music for the most part around in the mid '00s, barely ever heard anything on the radio, and then popped back in recently and found there's a lot of stuff to like, it just took looking for it
It's part of the deal. There are many factors at work including psychological ones as to why we tend to "age out" of a lot of modern popular music, but it's nothing to get too bothered by. It's normal, and it happens with every generation. Today's kids when they reach our age range will find the same thing happening to them.

That said, I've found that despite my listening habits remaining heavily tilted to my favorites or yore, I do still find new music that I like and that speaks to me, although much of it isn't necessarily what's the ubiquitous current "hits", it's stuff that would now be considered "niche". Stuff that I find from randomly listening to some new playlists on Spotify and bookmarking songs that jump out at me.

The bottom line is there's nothing wrong with aging out of what's currently popular or not "getting it", but if you know where to look you can still find new stuff that floats your boat.
It's common but a little pathetic. If you do it because you don't care anymore, fine, but any other reason is just sad. It's one thing to be out of the loop and be OK with it, but some people commenting seem to want to wear that as a badge of adulthood, which is pretentious and ignorant.

There are tons of artists out there that are actually your age making new music, tons that were older when you were younger that released music you haven't heard, and tons of young people doing new stuff you could be interested in. Mumblecore, dubstep, etc. isn't all that's out there in the same way the bands you listened to growing up were a small selection of what was available at the time.

Just remember, when you hear anything nostalgic like classic rock, it's usually being played by a 20-something from another era. If you can enjoy that, you can enjoy most anything new with a small amount of effort.
I listen to a lot of the 90s stuff I liked as a kid, but I tend to listen to the new Alternative stations more. I don't care about being "with it," but like the youthful energy along with angsty feelings that remind me of being a kid. Plus Blink 182 is still putting out songs that sound like they could have been released in 1998.
Our musical tastes are pretty much solidified in our teen years.  And, in particular, the year we go thru puberty (~14 for males, ~13 for females).

See this article (numerous studies seem to back up these basic conclusions).
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/10/opinion/sunday/favorite-songs.html?rref=collection%2Fbyline%2Fseth-stephens-davidowitz&amp;action=click&amp;contentCollection=undefined&amp;region=stream&amp;module=stream_unit&amp;version=latest&amp;contentPlacement=1&amp;pgtype=collection
I really like [Radio Paradise](https://radioparadise.com/). It's DJ-mixed eclectic music from this old hippie couple in California. It's great for discovering new music. And for what it's worth, I started listening to it in my 20's and still listen to it now in my late 30's.
I’m 35 and still regularly seek out and listen to new music, my music tastes morph and change over time. My mum was still excited about new music up until she was diagnosed with dementia in her early 60’s. I don’t think your experience is uncommon, everyone is different
I'm a huge fan of 90s and early 2000s music. I guess I stayed up on current music until 2014. Then I gradually shifted into only hearing new music if I listened to DJ Earworm's mashups. Now I don't listen to Earworm. I don't actually....listen to music on a daily basis.
You're right that that is happening but it's not just age it's also the change in the way music is discovered. It used to be that radio was how people found good new songs but now that corporate radio sucks people just shrug and throw up their hands.

The truth is there is so much amazing fantastic music coming it it's impossible to keep up with it all (trust me I know, more than 42k people follow my music stream). But you seldom hear that music on the radio, and when you do it's overplayed to death.

Teenagers need music to proclaim their identity and older folks will always enjoy the music of youth for nostalgia. But I think as long as you have a window into good new music you will find new bands to fall in love with. You just have to have that window into discovery.

It makes me sad too that so many people listen to the same old shit, which is why I'm a bit obsessed with sharing new bands. 

If anyone wants new music tell me your favorites and I'll send you some suggestions.
M41 here. My parents raised me on 60s duwap, 70s singers/songwriters, and classical piano. So, in my childhood I passed right over nearly everything in the 80s. In the early 90s, i went from Heavy Metal and classic rock straight to electronic. I loved everything from the popular big beat to deep underground Detroit style techno. In my 20s (2000s) I quit caring about anything new whether it was techno, trance, pop, rock, etc. It felt like music wasn't being made for me anymore. I still feel this way. There are artists and styles that I do like
 But I, like my parents and so many others, hold the days of golden songs in my teens. To me, the 1990s had the best variety of music. If you ask someone in their 50s, they might say it's the 80s. OP is a few years younger than I, so he/she likes the early 2000s.
Not for me. 

Do you not watch movies or TV? There's a lot of excellent music to be discovered there. Hear something you like, Shazam is your friend. 

Check out the [lo-fi hip hop channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hHW1oY26kxQ) on Youtube. It's ridiculously popular so you can feel with it, and it's excellent background music. 

Like rap &amp; hip hop, me too, and some of my favorite artists are working today. 

Like [Chance the Rapper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h8nIHZ-0kS4), [Childish Gambino](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tG35R8F2j8k), [Action Bronson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jKpd2Bua3Ug), [Lil' Dicky](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KX9G-nrvK0c) (often labeled as a comedian rapper but he's got solid talent), [Anderson Paak](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7PmUtmfTmbg) and [Vince Staples](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mb6Jc4juSF8).

Rock/Classic Rock/Indie, try [Greta Van Fleet
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HxbT5jSxGJ0),  [Alabama Shakes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Le-3MIBxQTw), [Tame Impala](https://youtu.be/sBzrzS1Ag_g?t=73), [Violent Soho
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RN9NC4iQcsA) or [Young Wonder](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iTkuJenFdPU)

Like both 80s pop and techno, there's a very popular family of genres that basically sound like they could be on the sound track for Bladerunner, try this [Synthwave Mix](https://youtu.be/wOMwO5T3yT4?t=944) or check out [Gunship](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-nC5TBv3sfU), [FM Attack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nC8uM7LKS6s), and [FM-84](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TvZskcqdYcE)

There's a ton of great electronic music these days from people like [Joakim Karud](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7YDBIGCXsY) or [Shlohmo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilet1_vru3I), and MIDI artists like [Marc Ribillet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hADIAOUzf8) pump out some great tracks. More pop-style like [Whetan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-s1CQLo0ds) is also worth a listen.

How about "world" music, because if you aren't listening to [Stromae](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHoT4N43jK8) you're missing out on something special. And while Kpop can sometimes get a bad rap if [Lim Kim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXPADwU05OQ) or [John Park](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QLmOezNMPnY) don't do anything for you than I question your overall taste in music. 

The one thing I can say has changed about the way I listen to music is that it's not as *much* about albums. I have a lot of individual tracks from artists I've never heard anything else from, but they're still some of my favorite songs, I just don't have the time to deep dive into everything else they've done. 

Anyway, as long as this list is it's just some highlights from my favorite music within the last ~10 years or so. I'd say don't worry so much about radio or pop music. Not that there isn't good pop, but by in large there's a lot more good music off the radio. 

I took a while to put this all together so I hope you'll give them a listen and find something you like.
I went through this around then
For some this is true. My hubs listens mostly to 90’s gangster rap and before. However I love music and listen to everything. Classic rock, 90’s, today’s music. However not a fan of a lot of rap. It’s all about personality.
I hope not. I'm 34. I pretty much listen to the same stuff I listened to in high school lol
I feel like I could have written this. I almost exclusively listen to the 90’s station on XM when I’m in my car. That and XM Fly, which is 90’s and 2000’s hip hop and R&amp;B. It makes me feel good, I like it. And like you said, I think I’ve just come to accept that new music isn’t made for me. There’s some of it that I dislike more than others, and there will be a song every now and then that I genuinely like, but I’m content enough with what I’ve got.

I can relate to the Muse thing though. When I discovered them, I was pumped. It was new and different and I loved it. And I don’t think I’ve found a new band since then that I’ve been really excited about.
i don't think i was ever 'with it'.  but my driving playlist has songs from every year of my life (1970-present).  music from my teens brings back the most intense memories, but i suspect that's not unusual.  i listen to alt nation on siriusxm because they are more likely to play new songs that are the kind of thing i enjoy.  not so much into rap or hip hop.
Yup.

The last year I knew, actively sought out, and went to see any new bands live was roughly 2005.

I might recognize the name of a current band or the title of a song, but the chances of my knowing more than that are slim to none.
I know a lot of people make fun of us ‘jam band nerds’ but reading something like this makes me appreciate the bands I love even more.

Phish, Greensky Bluegrass, moe., festivals like DelFest, etc

Live shows are where it’s at. I love hearing their new stuff all the time.  Why?  It’s different. Improvisation, new originals, new covers, etc.  

And these bands aren’t part of the pop music machine.  I don’t listen to the radio either but music will always be a big part of my life.
Yep.  I'll listen to new stuff by bands/musicians I liked in college but most of the new bands/musicians just don't appeal to me.
I had a period where I stopped listening to new music.  

Then *Muse* came out, and that broke my drought.  

Since then Ive found stuff I like.  *Phildel* was a very recent love of mine.
I was honestly thinking of posting to r/doesanybodyelse about this exact topic last night.  I figured it would have just been downvoted with a few "nope, not me..." comments.

I couldn't even name a current top 40 song without looking it up
a lot of modern music bores me and sucks but I guess in this case I actually mean main stream which I have always hated. there are still old artists making new stuff, there are also new old genres to discover. for a few years now I've started to listen to city pop which is a great genre. recently I really got into Japanese Jazz from the 80s, so there is still so much to discover.
It's not about being "with it". You're just not the right age for music industry marketing anymore. They target younger groups because they're more susceptible. Which is why so many teenagers cling to their favorite genre like it's a religion and then slowly grow out of it over time. 

So rejoice! You're not out of the loop, you've just advanced to the point where you're brain isn't as easily manipulated by marketing tactics. You'll listen to what you like, ignore the stuff you don't, and your life won't be any worse as a result.
Clubs are literally geared toward people under 25 fresh into drinking. Music, I suppose that depends. I would care more about music in my old age if any of it were decent, or I made it. Think most people just become preoccupied with life. It’s easy to obsess when you’re just sitting around waiting to grow up. People also like nostalgia. The sad thing is know kids don’t know any better and will think the new stuff they hear is amazing. 2000s hip hop? Oh dear! You could try listening to full albums of artists you already enjoy to see if songs you don’t know are any good. Sometimes stuff grows on me.
I know what you mean.  I grew up on great bands, really classic stuff, but today's music is too soulless and mechanical to get into.  Granted, my tastes were a little esoteric, and most people don't really "get it", but I certainly enjoyed artists like Jamtetic, Arthur Gordon, Beenton, Spaztik, r3t1n4 feat June Bellow, Legisl8ture, Monkstein, Travel Advisory, RayTrace, Fat Taft, Ben Crumpet, Table Scraps, Pullution, Pinewood, Ferrofluid, Special Potassium, The Green Assoc, Filofack, Ten Pound Alley, Denise Poppy, The Daq Band, Pullman, Ship's Biscuit, SheetMedal, Tony Powell &amp; The Towels, Draft Version, Coldstart, Icy Hat, Pick a Card, Rubenesque, Lay Fallow, Timestump, MagicalFX, The Boltz, Tim Flannery, Drövel, Up Unda, Elementary School Field Trip, Summer Stock, Reynolds Rap and ZipLok, Two Less, The Watt Band, Figrin Don, Fallopian, Pinhead of the Class, Gene Rayburne, Power Minit, Thin Mint, Dolly 'O Molly, Tinsnips, Burn Victim, Ritey Titey, Tangy Salt, Fortune 1s feat. Ed Mamson, The Walter Collins Experiment, Al Jaropener, Ping Pong, Flappy Bra, Glucometer, White Paint, Jeremy Clerkson, The Missionaries, Palimpset, Coinslut, Burlap, Folk Stank, Albumin, Pillowstainz, Dead Room, Pregnant Paws, Mentos, Filistine, Vox Xutter, Bailey Price, Omlette Machine, Packin' Peanuts, Mary and Murray, Last Time's a Charm, Keep Going, Last of the Stew, Copper Frame, Fillbox, Plackerz, Thermostatic, Bluetoothbrush, Almost Done, Reliably Late, Cröwbar, Ikea, Bill Raw, Wino Smell, Dramatic Bleu, Byzantine, Flip Kick, Gino &amp; Marissa, Hot Dog Water, Tempest in a CrockPot, Church Clothes, Going on Forever, Pepper Spray, Racist Squirrel, Photoshoop, Underground 747s, Longbus, Quarrel Bolt, Cafe Argument, Fred Pimpstone, Watch My Laptop?, Laura Palmtree, You're Soaking In It, JTT, Last I Saw, DJ Soapy Knuckles, Last Thyme, Grover Pilkington with Eat Greens, 99 Lb. Weekend, Gin &amp; Tannic Acid, Tampered Seal, That's It, and Robby Walker feat Palmsweat, you know, stuff like that.  Don't feel bad if you only recognize like only half of these bands -- they're more for the 'intellectual' music aficionado.
[Of course.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_game_culture)

&gt;As of 2016, **the average age for a video game player is 35**, a number slowly increasing as people who were children playing the first arcade, console and home computer games continue playing now on current systems.
[deleted]
I'm mid 40s and still play several times a week on average. Home stuff comes first now but if I have time I will play.
I sold my xbox360 when my second child was born 8 years ago. 

For Christmas I got my kids an xbox and I’m pretty sure I’ve logged way more hours on it than they have.
I game but nowhere near as much as I used to. 

I’m considering selling my consoles and buying a PC. 
It is hard to find 30+ gamers since most people get married, have families, and have other responsbilities and as a result sometimes forget how to have fun. I have virtually no friends in person to talk to about or play games with. You can always talk to me about games, or maybe even try to play World of Warcraft with me. ;)
32/f I'm on PS4, Steam, and Nintendo Switch. Always interested in more gaming buddies!
Gaming and making music are my main hobbies. I'll be playing games forever.
I don’t really anymore. Unless you count the odd Civ marathon. 

I didn’t deliberately stop. I just stopped enjoying it slowly. I guess what you enjoy just changed sometimes. 

It also might have something to do with being a software engineer. I sit in front of a screen all day and when I get home I just want to do something else. 
35/m here. I play video games at least a few times a week and now I'm even making video games in my spare time.
42, female, married, 3 toddlers...I play as a mindless escape. I’m so stressed out on a daily basis so at night after the kids are in bed, I play. 
Yes, but not as much as I used to (am 36).

Just completed Deus Ex: Human Revolution over the Easter break (was on sale for two quid), and am just downloading the next in the series. Next month is gonna be busy though so I doubt I'll get around to playing it for at least a few weeks.

Last year I played through a couple of games in the Mass Effect franchise.

Occasionally play Kerbal Space Program, which I was an early backer for while the game was in Alpha. Likewise with Subnautica (another great game).

---

In my 20s I used to play a lot more Multiplayer games: Quakeworld, TFC &amp; TF2, CS 1.6 &amp; source, etc.  
Not so much nowadays as you kinda have to devote far too much time to them in order to be remotely competitive. It's not so much a question of reactions getting shit as you get older, just available time to practice and get good.
I've been playing WoW on and off for the past 11ish years. It keeps my mind off of the stresses of work and life. It's a little escape from reality.
I'm 36 and I still consider myself a gamer. Like a lot of other posters here, I don't play as much as I used to, but occasionally I will go through a phase where I feel like playing much more. In fact, I just bought a new computer because the new WoW expansion won't run on my current computer. So yeah, I guess I'm still a gamer. I also just recently bought a Nintendo switch. But again, I can take gaming or leave it. I actually belong to a guild in WoW that has a minimum age of 25. I'm actually on the young end of things. It's nice to play with people who have a little bit of life experience.
Yes, I am at 37 but only a handful, like GTA and RDR. I play one about every 18 months or every other year.
[deleted]
I just found this subreddit and I know this post is old but just wanted to comment with my own experience. I'm a 41/F and started out on Atari, Nintendo, Dreamcast, PS2, then stopped for a few years even after owning a PS3. I stayed away from online or co-op games for the sames reasons people have stated. About 5 years ago I got back into gaming on a PS4, even got an Oculus (less game, more experience). I have a few female gaming friends but schedules don't match up well. I have male friends that are cool to game with but not in co-op way or at least never took them up on the offer. 
Video games are hugely popular among adult males; they drive video game sales in a similar way that white teens drive hip-hop and rap album sales.

Personally, I haven't played video games since the late '90s. I just lost interest, and I didn't care to try to keep up anymore. 
[deleted]
I do, but my interests are so niche (I only really like RPGs) and I get so little time at home that there's not much for me to play. I have a Switch, I like RPGs... but I like RPGs with a more linear story and guided development. I get frustrated with open world stuff, so yeah. I play but I wish there was more out there for me.
I recently got back into gaming. I played a lot when I was younger but stopped when life got too busy for it. But, I am realizing now I should not deprive myself of something I enjoy just because I have other life priorities.
[deleted]
Same as op, if you want my NNID, PSNID, or gamertag, feel free to message me.
Indeed I do, although I don’t have time to play like I did in those dreamy teenage years. My brother and I are working on a pretty massive collection of NES-PS3 titles, and really looking forward to retirement in order to play them all. I recently picked up a PSVR in order to elevate the quality of my brief sessions, but I also play NHL with my roommate, gang beasts, and other fun little indie stuff from time to time. 
Fully functional adult f, married, kids, dog, social life etc.  Own every current gen console, husband has gaming PC, looking to build out a new one. Mostly play solo things since I don't have the time to devote to teams, but I still do play Splatoon (thanks to 3 minute matches). I travel for work so the Switch gets heavy use, but it's my way to "meditate" at the end of a long day. I probably put more hours into Diablo 3 than anything else while my son was super little.  Some people have wine, I have video games. 
Hell yea 33 and game all the time.  
I'm in my late 30s and I love games. I build a new PC rig every few years and have had a Steam account since it first started. I mostly play single-player games, but I sometimes play multiplayer games where it's not necessary to have a mic and headset. Too many foul-mouthed kids, ill-tempered players, and folks who have the time to find and abuse any and every possible exploit.
I'm turning 30 in about 2 months and I still set the time aside to play games, even with a wife and daughter. Having a switch makes it easier to include my wife though, who actually grew up on the 64 like me!

I don't get much time for my own sessions (3 hrs every Friday night), but I value it. Especially when I'm finally sitting down to grind through my childhood dream to Catch em All!
I live in a city with a good music scene and a lot of night life options. I use them to stay home and not blow money. They're one of the most responsible decisions that I make. 
42M - Still love gaming.  And I catch shit all around for it.
Tons of people under forty play video games. We are the original video game generation, born at the same time as video games and experiencing their evolution firsthand. I've been playing since Intellivision. It's not a lifestyle for me, but definitely one of my hobbies.
38 and still at it.  Although I have a lot less time to play and the types of games I play have changed now that my boys like to watch me.  It's a good excuse to play all the Mario games I missed from the cube to the Wii u.
Mid 30s, been gaming my whole life, love it; at this age though, I find very little time to do it. I'm currently juggling 3 or 4 games for when I get the odd hour here or there, problem is, they're all massive games lol. 

A little heads up if you haven't tried it, at this age you've probably it noticed the roles have reversed since you were younger and you now have money to buy good games but no time to play them, if that's the case you might be in a position to afford a proper VR unit like a PSVR, if so, get it!!! Complete game changer (ba'dum tsss), honestly one of the most significant progressions in gaming I've ever seen, but many people don't appreciate it because you can't demo it in 2D adverts, or they've tried the VR kits for your phone and weren't overly impressed, this is different, a proper VR unit with good games is like a new dimension in gaming.
44 and been gaming since Pong.
I am way older than you (52/m) and I just got an Xbox1s when they went on sale in Nov. Every Friday is Co-Op game night with my 2 (adult) sons...the Halos, Borderlands 2, etc. I hadn't gamed since the original Xbox and Halo when I deployed for the first time but I do go all the way back to the Atari 2600 in my youth. 
Me. I'm 31, female, have a 10 month old, and very actively game with my husband! 😊
Yes! XB1X BF1. Been gaming since the NES days. Of course adult responsibilities have taken priority over gaming but I definitely enjoy gaming sessions on my days off. 
I'm 33 and I play games, but mostly just single player.  I do get down with fortnite a few times a week, but other than that I've mostly been playing RPGs and the Uncharted series.
35 y/o M here and I pay the crap out of, PUBG and now path of exile. I play with some non toxic highschoolers and it's fun af. No shame no regrets! 
Absolutely 
Someone needs to watch Dara O'Briain's Go 8-bit! ;)
Hell yeah.  Currently on Zelda- Breath of the Wild and Mario Kart 8.

Not as often as I used to though.  Lots of other projects in the works.  
Me!! I'm a 30/f that has a great job in advertising and marketing. I play PS4 nearly every day. Right now I'm deep into Assassins Creed: Origins but I will play GTA:V and RDR on the regular. I've also been gaming since NES days, and for me, it's a great stress relief!  
Oh yeah hardcore gamer here in my forties.

When they gave me my Atari my parents thought that I would eventually grow out of it.

Jokes on them it is literally my most enduring and satisfying Hobby.

Though the only voice chat multiplayer that I play currently is OverWatch, most of my library is either single player or text base comms like Guild Wars 2.

And yeah I've had to deal with a bunch of snotty kids, but I've also run into a few really good teammates that just happened to be 13 ish.

My heart goes out to you being a female gamer, I've seen the stupidity you ladies get from voice comms and please don't be offended when I say I am very thankful that I don't have to deal with that.
34/m and play almost daily, especially in winter.

But, teenagers have pushed me off of online competitive gaming. I don't have the time or interest to get incredibly good at the latest FPS so I don't get creamed by them. Now I stick mostly to solo RPGs or adventure games.
been a gamer since pong. played them all 100% OG.
36, married, work two jobs, no kids.  I go through phases where I play tons of video games and then other times when I play very little and mostly focus on tech projects around my house.  
30, have a toddler, wife stays home, I play a fair amount of H-Hour.
34 and about to play fortnight 
All the dang time.

I waited until I was 30 to try to get into the YouTube/Let's Play hobby which is certainly largely watched by younger folks, but through it I've met so many 30+ gamers who are doing the same thing for fun and friendship. It's a great time to have reasonable financial stability and lots of amazing game options.

What do you play?
Ok awesome! Thank you for the link :).  It’s always nice to chat with prowl about gaming and other similar topics. 
I'm 33, love playing video games, I don't have any mates who play tho, which would suck coz I'd really love to play with someone.
Same.

While others are super concerned about how others view them and being included, most if the time I don't care. Sometimes in the moment, but overall I feel like things don't matter. If someone at work gossips about me behind my back, it doesn't affect my paycheck or life. 

WFH probably helps with that. I'm pretty disconnected with most things and feel no real connection to alot. 

Probably depression. But it is nice to not worry about alot of these things.
You start giving less a shit about things which are meaningless.
Behold the field in which i grow my fucks, lay thine eyes upon it and thou shalt see that it is barren!

The live love laugh wall decoration of your thirties.
Not really.  I won't say I don't give a shit, but I do put less importance on certain things than I did when I was younger.
Part of maturing is realizing what really matters and caring less about the things that don’t. It’s also learning to let go of the things you can’t control. 

I would encourage you to think about the things you don’t care about like you used to and examine them. Should you still care about those things? Or are they things that don’t impact you. 

You can always talk to a therapist.
sheep magnitude
Yeah it was really special. A sudden release of social anxiety, backed up by mild annoyance at humanity in general and at other drivers in particular.
For a lot of people this lack of giving a shit comes and goes in waves and takes different forms.  

Like when I was in my teens and early 20s I didn't give a shits -- adults are mostly idiots, school is annoying, having fun all the time is priority, people who mow their lawns and go to work are suckers, society is fucked, etc. I mean, can you fucking blame me? Look at the world we live in and tell me that adults know what they're doing. So why should I care what adults say? Like Trainspotting: "Choose fixed interest mortgage repayments. Choose a starter home. etc. etc. Choose life. But why would I want to do a thing like that?"

Then in my 20s I realized, oh shit education is actually really important and applying myself is rewarding, and yeah work sucks but I have to do it so might as well change my attitude towards it, and society is still fucked but maybe I should try and do something about it instead of just bitching, and maybe drinking every night and doing god knows what isn't actually all that fun anymore. In the words of Lagwagon - "Well maybe I'm just 30 and I don't want to go to parties anymore." And actually maybe I was doing it to escape my own inner pain, so maybe I should go talk to someone about that and process some of that and get my ass in AA and start taking responsibility for my life. 

But then gradually not giving a shit comes back: I'm at work all goddamn day, sitting in traffic, eating shit from corporate who have total authority but don't know anything about what it's like day-to-day in here, and I thought I had life figured out but it turns out I have no idea what I'm doing, and could it really be true that the universe came out of nowhere for no fucking reason at all and it's all gonna burn up anyway, so what the hell does it matter what I do, and society is still fucked even though I wanted to do something to change it, and man that drink actually is starting to sound good again, and goddamn I had all these ideas of being an artist and a rebel and I didn't do any of it what the fuck.

But then you start to see, actually I have a whole hell of a lot to be grateful for in life. And it is possible to find work that is actually enriching and enjoyable. And no, all of life isn't a meaningless bunch of nonsense but is saturated with meaning if I can find a way to flow with it; and meditation, exercise, sex and sleep help with that and are actually arts in themselves, to be practiced and appreciated; and there is so much incredible beauty in the world, and so much literature, philosophy, art, and music to soak in still, and I actually really like baking with sourdough, fermenting kombucha, djing on vinyl, ballroom dancing, and I can take art classes and go on walks with my dogs and deepen my relationships with my wife, my parents and other people, and so on. 

So I turned 40 last year and that is where I'm at. It's quite likely I'll face another existential crisis; perhaps linked to something external like our crumbling social infrastructure or environmental crises or deaths to people close to me, or maybe something internal like, did I sell out? Am I filling my life with these hobbies as a distraction from the abyss or escape from my commitments? Am I actually an arrogant condescending privileged asshole? And so on, I think I've added a lot to my toolkit over the years from therapy, meditation, and my own self reflection, so hopefully I can deal with it but I guess we'll see. 

It's all part of life, we're here to grow up and it pushes us around sometimes but stick with it, try and find opportunities to stay positive and grateful and optimistic and hopefully you'll find a way to start reengaging with things that are important to you. 

I think the Dead Mlikmen put it much better in [Big Deal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Do6kcmN6Kx4)

&gt; Life sucks, then you die
&gt; And your soul gets sucked into the sky
&gt; Birds sing, I wonder why
&gt; You eat a bowl of cereal and sigh
&gt; You're late for your class
&gt; You're walkin' the halls without a pass
&gt; Big deal
&gt; Big deal
&gt; 
&gt; Time flies, time crawls
&gt; You're a prisoner trapped between its claws
&gt; Life sucks, sometimes
&gt; You gotta learn to live between the lines
&gt; Your feet are on the ground
&gt; But the world keeps spinning you around
&gt; Big deal
&gt; Big deal
&gt; 
&gt; Don't be worried, don't be down
&gt; I'll be your stupid happy clown
&gt; Keep your chin up in the air
&gt; Shake your body like you just don't care
&gt; Birds sing, babies cry
&gt; Life sucks and then you die
&gt; Big deal
&gt; Big deal
I'm 35 and can relate to your post. Apart of me is happy about the fact that I stopped caring about stuff, but there's another part that also wonders if that's healthy and I start worrying about myself.
[deleted]
No more F's to give, now you can live life freely! 

Just don't forget to tell those kids to get off your lawn!! /s
I dunno. I feel that way naturally and chalk it up to being a millennial in my mid-30s and working class during late capitalism; everything must be a subscription; you will own nothing and be thankful for a derisory income for the value you offer. Then I see my shrink and he gives me some pills that make me function with a chemical illusory feeling that everything's fine.  
My retirement plan is still a noose. But at least my clinical depression is mitigated for now. I can have a chemically assisted simulation of happiness (contention?) until I reach "retirement" and/or die.  
I give a shit about many things but I think it's largely manufactured dissent. I liked twitter when I was on it for a couple weeks just seeing stuff from artists I like. A few weeks later I noticed that I look at it for 5 minutes and get pissed off. It's designed that way. Outrage cultivates engagement. Reddit used to be dope. Now it's filled with zoomers and their teenager opinions and thought processes. I'm exhausted.
I’ve gone through similar feelings as well. I’m indifferent to most things, don’t really have strong opinions on most issues, and I really just focus on my career, myself and those close to me. I also have hobbies and that’s how I meet new people. 

It makes for a pretty simple, drama-free life.
I didn’t give a shit all my life.  Which led me to the life I live.
It could be both. There’s a natural prioritization that happens as you get old. There’s also a legit mourning phase that happens with lost relationships. Those can take years. I had an 8 year phase. 

I don’t care. If something came around, I’d be open. I just don’t try hard because it’s not a priority.
As I’m always saying to my kids, the best thing about getting older is not worrying what others think
Social media, yes. But YouTube can be tailored to your interest. I find myself deleting channels and adding new channels based on my current interests.
I saw a meme once that said "Once you reach 30, you have a choice to make. You'll either start smoking meats, or read a lot of books about world war 2"
I quit Facebook in 2011 at the age 29. Focused on my career. Built two businesses. Now at 39 I just got on Instagram to showcase some woodworking stuff that I picked up during pandemic. I have customized my reddit and Instagram to pretty much fuel my passion for my hobbies (which are numerous). Never really cared for watching TV, so I just dive head first into research/learning how to perfect my craft. Between 2 kids under 3, 2 businesses,  and my wife, I manage to squeeze it all into a day. I just try not to watch TV.
I bought a house last year so I have been busy organizing and decorating. I'm starting a garden. Taking my dogs hiking. Reading books. Calling friends who live far away, making plans with friends who live nearby...
I found myself following a similar pattern, even with video games which I’ve done my whole life. Eventually I decided, given my tendency to hyper focus, to turn towards subject matter than is nigh infinite in depth: for me, language learning and fitness / health.
I do stuff with my hands. Watching people do stuff is not near as cool as the actual doing. I have a few old cars to tinker on, a little garage workshop in which to do so, and a bunch of tools accumulated over the years, so I just work on stuff. Now and then I’ll build something for my wife, plant stuff in her flower garden, or whatever else she needs me for. I’m the designated Sherpa/ hole digger/ heavy things toter. I still waste a lot of time on Reddit but am &gt;&lt; that close to giving up on FB as a platform and Insta ain’t far behind.
Lost 90 pounds. Now getting swole.
Running and drinking beer.
What is "free time"?

Joking aside, I've never been one to spend ages on social media, but I do watch YouTube on my commute. I've got my feed pretty much tailored to just educational stuff though, all documentaries and science/tech stuff.
Started reading reddit...
Watch too much TV and movies. Travel. The beach.

Its funny, someone said to me recently that we are at the age of humans "need to be entertained all the time". Like Tiktok is nice once in a while, but I have NO IDEA how some people can spend hours looking at them. And I think I am even more horrified that people make a living selling themselves and their life with them. Also that social media has to be "meaningful" or "deeper". I remember the old days when we just watched funny flash videos and looks at art work and poetry. We didn't need to have a higher meaning to everything.
Animal Crossing and Diablo 2 mostly

Also D&amp;D with my kids
I've started listening to a bunch of podcasts and old radio movies (lux radio theatre)  while I do my crafts xD basically going back to pre-tv times
Free time? I have a baby. What is free time?
Read
Audiobooks, Painting, &amp; LinkedIn Learning
Read and walk. it's so much better for you and will actively make you smarter and stornger. YouTube is the devil
I think that YouTube offers a lot of really great content but you have to wade through oceans of shit to find it. Maybe you're just tired of whatever it is you were following?
I’m sitting here with my first niece who was born two days ago. My sister is 42 and met her partner 2-3 years ago. 

I also have a friend who is due in a couple weeks with her first at 42. She is single and is planning to solo parent. 

I knew someone who was married for like 8 years. They got divorced in her early 30s. Then she looked online for someone to have a kid with. She met a guy who also wanted kids and they got married in a couple months and had a kid pretty quickly. They seem happy enough.

There are lots of ways to have a family.
I got married at 34. I had my first child at 35 and my second at 37 (18 months later).  Many of my friends have gotten married or started a family in their mid-thirties. 

It’s great to have dreams and goals, but contentment comes from enjoying the present season. Marriage and kids are great, but even when you have those things, it can be tempting to miss out on the season you’re in if you’re constantly looking ahead (when we’re married, when the kids sleep through the night, when the kids are in school etc).

Edit: I want to add that I think physical appearance matters less to men than women think.
I'm 44 and childfree by choice.  I'm also marriage free by choice.  But most of the people I know who did get married did so after they turned 30 and the best, most responsible parents I've met all had kids after 30.  I personally think it all makes more sense that way and leads to better outcomes.  You're older, wiser, more mature, better equipped mentally, emotionally and (usually) financially to deal with the complexities of navigating relationships and raising children.
33 is a weird age. I got divorced at 33 after marrying my first girlfriend. So I actually experienced my first breakup at the age you're at now. This happened two years ago. What I've learned since is that very little is in my control and timing is different for everyone. I don't believe it's too late for you. I just think being kind to ourselves after a rough relationship is the right move and others will gravitate towards that kindness. I found someone kind myself and open to where life will take us. It's hard but lots of support in the comments here. Have a good new year :)
Most of my friends had their kids over 35. Women in their 40’s, too. It’s totally possible. I got pregnant easily at 37. Don’t get discouraged. You have lots of time to focus on your wellbeing. It’s unfortunate we have a time limit on fertility and men don’t really have to worry about it. It’s not fair.
[deleted]
Not at all. Late 30’s male and in the exact same position, so that’s exactly what I’m looking for. It’s incredibly difficult to find someone I like at this age that doesn’t already have kids or multiple ex-husbands. Not that there’s anything negative about moms, but I want to date someone at the same place in life as me. I haven’t unlocked those achievements and I want someone to experience that with.
I had a friend who had her first daughter at 42 &amp; her second at 48! Hope is still there. When you least expect it, you will find your person. You’re still a youngling! 

If you’re really concerned, try to find out more about freezing your eggs. When the time is right (you may not be “ready”if it’s adoption), you will be a parent. Another friend just adopted a baby a year ago at 50 &amp; gave me hope! Best of luck, but I know you’ll have a baby of your own. 

Much love &amp; strength
I'll be 33 next month. I don't wanna have kids ever or get married. Do your thing . Be happy and know your worth!
" All I hear left and right is that women lose their value in their 30s and no man will want to settle down with someone at this age"  there is a male version of this:  "if you dont have 6 ft, 6 inches, and 6 figures, youll die alone."  do you think this is true, or bullshit?  what you are hearing is the same.  i know this is a hugely difficult thing to ask, but to the extent you can,  exile these ideas from your mind and your life, wih extreme  prejudice.  I hope things look up :)
Absolutely not. Through experience (aka "the hard way") I have found that there is a significant maturity difference, on average, between 20s and 30s. In fact, being on the other side of divorce, I'm now only looking for women 30 and up because I need someone with a bit of wisdom, who understands that life isn't about self-indulgence and taking the easy route.
I was happily married for the last 18 years, but never had kids.  I'm now about to turn 40 and newly widowed.  I'm not in any way ready to find someone new to settle down with just yet, but I haven't given up hope for myself.  If I can still have hope for the future you certainly can. 

Women losing their value in their 30s is an insane outdated notion.  Sure it may be a little harder than when you were a 20 something, but you're still not that far off.  You're still young from every point of view except maybe a teenager's.  You've still got plenty of time to find someone worth having kids with.
Don’t worry, men lose their value too, it’s just that men don’t like to admit that. As we get older we become less and less attractive it’s just how it works. I’m 33 in February and continue to feel more invisible. When I’m around 20 somethings I feel like daddy now. 

I was married and now I’m alone and have the same thoughts as you. I want a lady that loves me and accepts me for who I am, good and bad. It’s hard to find someone who really loves you these days.
I got out of a relationship at 36, pregger at 38 and 40. Might go one more too, (I’m 41).
I had to check twice to see if I wasn't the one who wrote this!  I'm also a 33 female. Also got out of a relationship almost 2 years ago. Also dream of marriage and kids. And feel completely hopeless and like I wasted my prime years. Hugs to you!
&gt; All I hear left and right is that women lose their value in their 30s and no man will want to settle down with someone at this age.

If all your value is invested in looks, then age inflation will surely make you less valuable. So, invest in other areas (which hopefully you already have).

The power dynamic does shift in the 30s bracket. Men have the upperhand in being selective whereas in the 20s women have it, due to perceived value/demand.

If you have developed good character, personality, have kept in shape, can cook and look after yourself, basically matured well.. then that will make you very valuable and attractive. 

Mature men don't want 30s women who still have the mentality of 20s women. They don't want a liability and someone looking for a free ride.
My best friend met the love of her life at 37 and had their first baby at 38. Contemplating have a second and she’ll be 39 in February
Kamala Harris got married when she was 50
Hey. You are by no means too late. I am a 48 year old, never-married guy and 33 is toward the  *low* end of age in a prospective mate. 

Not trying to be creepy, just saying there are plenty of men who would be delighted with a 33-year-old significant other.
Either improve yourself, make more efforts to meet new people, or lower your standards.
I didn't marry until late 30s and my wife is older.  Neither of us were previously married.
I met my person when I was 45. A caveat, I don't have kids, but I wasn't looking to necessarily but was open to someone who might already have kids. Previous attempts at partnering were almost comical in regards to how poorly we fit, and how I never found anyone with basic decency. I kind of surrendered after a while, thinking OK, I might not find a partner, but I should be the best me I can be and have fun and do meaningful things. So I immersed myself in that for a year. I had the itch to try dating again and there he was, within 2 wks of making a new profile. Everything was easy. we both wanted to partner in the same way and our lives came together very quickly. We got married within the year and here we are. Never looked back, worth all the wait. I will say many of the stereotypes came true for me, in that he was not the type of guy I would have considered previously.
While I don't have or want (and actually can't have) kids, I can relate to worrying about never finding a good partner/husband,  and I am in my 30s. I worry a lot about this, and while I have tried to take positive steps, no results so far. I get sad about it too sometimes, even more so what I can't give or share rather than what I don't have.

I don't have any answers, other than saying that as much as I would like to welcome Mr. Right into my life, I would rather be single than with Mr. Wrong (or worse, like Mr. Outright Horrible). 

However your life turns out in this regard, I hope you find peace and joy wherever your path takes you. I can't make any promises or guarantees, but whatever happens, you deserve to hold your head high and know your worth.
It's never too late. For anything. Keep that in mind.
Been with hubs since I was 24, he’s 3 years younger and wasn’t truly ready to have kids until 30. When we tried for a few years unsuccessfully, we went to a fertility clinic. Ended up having my daughter at 37 and my son at 38. You have time! It’s so much more important to find the right person, or decide you want to do it on your own!!! I would suggest freezing some eggs if it’s possible financially, mostly to take the pressure off yourself. But sweets, you got time, do you! 

Oh also, both pregnancies were healthy and babies are amazing. You got time!
Men can be shallow. So can women. Perhaps I am biased because I am in a similar boat, but you're not undesirable. What *is* undesirable is the attitude that you're undesirable because of your age. I personally still feel like I am 25 and am in better shape now than I was when I was a teenager. Sometimes I do feel down about not being younger, but I walk away when friends start complaining about how old they are at 35-40 and how "Well, due to my age I...." or "I am getting up there so I should be..."

Of course, pregnancy is a different matter, but still, there are women giving birth in their mid 40s now. Some even later with fertility or getting eggs frozen. Those are expensive, but there is hope.
Girl, you’ve got time to be single, get married, get divorced and find your best life!
30s is like when you're trying to catch your breath after a run. The rush of your youth is over, you start to realize how far you've come and how you got here.
When I was in my late twenties my older sister started working through some family trauma from our childhood, I told her it didn't really affect me in the same way. She told me to wait for my thirties and I kinda shrugged it off. 

No joke I 100% started addressing it in my thirties as I couldn't avoid it any longer. Still early thirties now but absolutely can relate to this feeling!
This really started for me after I got divorced at 37, realising how much damage I had to "un-learn" and trying to build myself anew.
I was just talking about this with my sister ! I was always very aware of my weird family dynamic and knew it messed me up, but I didn’t fully grasp how bad it was until after I turned 30 and started looking back on specifics . I felt like it didn’t really *hit* me until I reached 32 . Glad I’m not the only one !
No, I just felt like I should have accomplished more by then.
It's really typical in r/raisedbynarcissists etc to see people in their early 30s start processing things as their kids start triggering them or in my case where it felt as though my late twenties and early thirties were the first time I could stop and look around. It's even more common to see people make big changes to their lives to address that trauma too (like non-contact or other boundary setting). It's probably why the gentle parenting movement is so big right now, a whole bunch of folks who had not great parents are in their 30s right now.
Yes and my feelings were confirmed when my mom disowned me in my mid thirties.

Why? “Because I’m a coastal elite who supports niggers being president..” (Backstory is that she’s toxic AF and real mad that i grew up in Texas and moved away and now live in Boston, she feels betrayed I wasn’t a Trumper).

She disowned my son too.
I'm in my late 20s and I've been in therapy for most of my 20s. Hard to know if I'm actually making any progress though, I feel like there is just so much

ETA: Oops! I've been a lurker on the over30reddit for a couple months and just revealed my secret!
Conversely I tried to deal with it in my mid-late 20s and I think it made things worse. Now in my mid-30s I've trying to embrace the phrase "introspection is the death of happiness."

Not succeeding super well, I'm naturally introspective to a fault (read: self-absorbed), but it still seems pretty true for me at least. I'm happiest when I'm not thinking. I'm better off burying that shit and moving on- as unpopular an opinion as that may be.
Definitely not just you.
Same. Now I worry I don’t have time to fall apart in therapy about it.
not in the way you describe, but it did happen. i became determined to make changes, then I did. it was scary. but I'm in a healthier place.
There's a lot to unpack there and more red flags than a whole communist army but all that aside, I can say one thing unequivocally:  if you're not happy, getting married and having a kid will not make things better.  If you think it's bad now, brother, I've seen that situation and let me tell you, you don't want to see it and you certainly don't want to live it.  Good luck, man.
NO! Do not stay! Do not bring a child into this. 

She is abusive. 

Things will NOT get better. 

You are worth more than how she is treating you. 

Get out.
Do you want to stay in an abusive relationship AND bring a child into the mix?

Why have you ‘lost’ all your friends?
Jesus fella there are a million red flags there right away. You mentioned losing hair and psoriasis, obviously I know nothing of your past but I'd be willing to bet that your relationship has a part to play in that. You may well find those clearing up once you're out of it and away from all that stress. 

Don't be afraid to be alone. I once thought I could never live without my husband, but guess what? I am just so much more happy, content, and relaxed without him. Sure I get lonely sometimes, but it passes, and I got a cat and she fills my heart again. 

At the risk of sounding cliche, you deserve better, and to me being alone sounds better than what you have described.
I am 35, divorced, live alone, and currently single.

I love my life. Being alone is fucking magnificent.

Never trade your mental health for the company of another. Ever.
You should ask yourself if you really want to bring a kid in to a world where violence like that happens?

If things are bad now, marriage will not make it better, if anything that could make it worse.

Ultimately you need to do what is right for you, loneliness is scary (I’m right there as well), but being happy is more important.

I saw here someone posted some links to groups that may help with the loneliness part, only you can do what you need for the happiness part
&gt; Should I stay in a relationship which has no future just to avoid being alone in my 30s ?

I mean... no. No, you shouldn't do that.

You're an adult. Take responsibility. Either fix your relationship or end it. It won't fix itself.
Wow. If she abuses you like that when you don't do what she wants - imagine what she will do to a child who can't physically or emotionally stand up for itself.
Listen... I don’t even have to read beyond the title...

You already know the answer. It hurts. It’s scary. But you know what is right for you. Coming here to Reddit to ask everyone seems like you may have already made a decision, you just want support. 

I support you. 

It’s better to spend the rest of your life alone but doing things you enjoy than forever tied to someone who is abusing you and making you miserable. 

But you won’t be alone forever. Unless you choose to be.
Drop her and use the extra emotional energy to work on yourself.
You're asking for permission to continue in a Stockholm Syndrome abusive relationship. I'm sure you've heard this time and time again. The nature of abuse is that only when you realize your reality you'll be able to make a decision. It takes about 7 times before victims can leave.
Let me tell you, I'm fundamentally completely utterly alone. No friends, no family. And I mean absolute zero. And I'm 40. Alone doesn't mean lonely. Yes sometimes it's depressing, but lemme tell you it's much better than being hostage in an abusive relationship. You need to learn to be alone so you can be with someone bcs you *want* not bcs you have to.

Edit - not sure if you've thought about this, but she knows you're trying to leave so she wants to keep you w a child. Don't doubt for a minute she'll try to get pregnant, with you or w someone else.. And pass it off as yours. My advice is do not sleep w this abuser and when she gets pregnant (she's likely cheating, it's just what abusers do) DO NOT put your name on birth cert. If you do your liable for child payment even if DNA proves you are not the father.
I'm sorry you're going through that :(
Dont. Bring. A. Child. Into. That. House. 

If she’s throwing shit and being dangerous do you really want a kid to witness this or worse be the victim of it. 

Being lonely isn’t worse than being depressed and in a hell marriage. Being lonely can be fixed. 

Join some social groups. Cultivate friendships at work. Put yourself in a position to move on and then when you’re ready let her know that you’re not happy and that both of you should be happy instead of just one of you. 

She’s going to be mad. She’s going to throw stuff. I’m half tempted for you to tell her in a public place so she doesn’t like accuse you of something. 

This is a hellish situation. I hope you find a way out of it❤️
Do you want to wake up at age 60 feeling completely alone but staring at someone you resent with every single part of your soul? Being single is great. Being in prison is hell on earth.
You're asking the question at the right time, my SO has psoarisis too and I adore him, I know some people judge but also, many won't. You shouldn't get hurt and physically during arguments, no relationship should go like that. I hope it gets better for you.
No. "Being Alone" is a myth.   


If you're in a bad relationship, get out now. It doesn't get any easier later.   


YOU WILL NOT BE ALONE FOREVER. THERE ARE GOOD PEOPLE OUT THERE WHO DON'T SCREAM AND THROW SHIT AT YOU.  


I promise.
You deserve better. What you are describing sounds like abuse. [https://www.thehotline.org/](https://www.thehotline.org/) and if you're not in the US, [https://www.domesticshelters.org/resources/national-global-organizations](https://www.domesticshelters.org/resources/national-global-organizations)

Abusers damage their victims slowly, so we don't notice it over time. They slowly isolate us so that, when we contemplate leaving, we feel we have no one to turn to.

You can talk to trained individuals at a DV hotline for help. You can make a safety plan, get important documents in order, and get out. I exited an abusive relationship in 2012, and my life is SO much sweeter than I ever thought it would be. 

OP, we are here for you. You deserve better.
Dude, 30 is SO YOUNG. At least 40 good years ahead of you. Like, how many good years of adulthood have you already had? Fewer than 10, probably? Before age 20, you were just getting the ingredients together, those years don’t count.

It’s called the Sunk Cost Fallacy.

FWIW, I got divorced at 29, and now in my late 40s have an awesome family and life.
Bro are you serious right now? Imagine, if you can detach, a friend telling these things to you and what you would think. Stress, psoriasis, and hair loss go hand in hand. In hand.

You know what you doing. Feel free to chat.
Nope. Being single isn't a crime against humanity
You obviously know that this relationship needs to end.

It sounds like you've also got some issues with self-esteem and body image that you need to work on. I can assure you that all of those things are addressable. But you need to take steps to make those things happen. Getting this woman out of your life is the first one.
No way you should not stay. But I’m very confused as to why you have to ask. Like if us telling you will somehow get you to do it but being abused won’t?  Please leave ASAP and do not have a kid
Yes.
Please do not bring a kid into such an unhappy relationship. It’s not fair for the kid to have to deal with its parents issue. You need to leave
No.
Just happened to watch this video on my feed before seeing your post, OP - please take 12 minutes out of your day to watch this for a different kind of perspective:

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=GIhuCMxkQS4

Consider the “flaws” that you see in yourself... though the ones you listed actually seem very minor to me, even if they *were* extreme, these are just a shell. There are good people out there, and love - let alone basic respect - is not something that you should give up on.

Best of luck.
Fuck no!
You won't be alone forever if you keep looking for good people. I can't prove that you will ever find someone who will love you unconditionally, but you will find at least one person who won't scream at you or throw boiling water at you. Run for your life.
Nope. Get out, and go fuck some people to reset yourself. Then find 2 hobbies that you like. 1 that is active or a sport because exercise and being physically healthy staves off depression and lethargy. 2 can be whatever makes you happy. Go out and fuck away to reset. Or not if that’s not your thing.

Desperately seeking someone to be with for the sake of not being alone is not good. Once you are happy by yourself, people will be attracted to the light that shines from your happiness.

Don’t have a baby with someone that doesn’t treat you right.
Dude, red flags all over. Get out. Being alone opens you up to new relationships. I’m married, with a kid. My wife is not a kind person toward me, but I didnt want to leave out of lonliness. Dont be like me, get out.
As a 40 year old separated male I can't stress enough how important it is to maintain friendships. It's especially hard to create new friendships later on in life.
Ask yourself what you'd be doing with your time should you and your girlfriend break up.
Start a hobby, join a club, make an effort to create friends at work.. Your own identity and life is as important as the one you share with your partner. 
[deleted]
That started post college for me actually. 

It's not all that bad to me but I think that's because I honestly was someone who was cool with just a few friends.

That said, those few friends are now like 3 friends and we rarely see each other. One is married and now has a toddler, and the other 2 have extremely long hours and work different hours from me. Every time I try to make plans, they never end up happening so I stopped making them. 
You know, "friends" are really just the people you see often and get along with. Coworkers, neighbors, fellow fans of whatever shit you obsess over on reddit, etc. If you stop seeing them, they do go away. I wouldn't worry too much unless you isolate yourself from all humans. Try not to do that. My advice, take it or leave it.
I’m 37 and the number of friends I have can be counted on one hand, and that includes my partner. Often, I don’t mind - I prefer to spend time on my own or with my partner. But at other times it’s really, really tough. I just can’t seem to connect with work colleagues etc. 
I find that when people I'm close to reach 30 they drop out of my life.  I have the additional issue of being low status and perennially single and I feel the 30's are the verties, people's mindset becomes very vertical, about status and stuff.  Plus a lot of people in their 30's are pumping out kids.  Also a lot of times with marrieds lightening has to strike twice (you have to be approved by both parties of the relationship to be either of their friends).

That being said, like another poster mentioned, it's not a good idea to give up on friends because you got married as a marriage has no guarantee of lasting.
This is so fucking true, and so depressing.  I understand why it happens, but it's still shitty.
My husband went through this a few years ago. Friends from high school and college moved away or had their own things to take care of so they didn't get together anymore. He actually started up a hobby he had apparently always had interest in, board games, and now he has 1 to 2 play nights a week. There is a core group of guys that he originally made friends with who stay in tact while a few people rotate in and out. It was the best thing he ever did for himself, in my opinion. He was so bored before, always feeling trapped in the house, and now he has a whole new social circle and hobby to research (which he loves doing).
I've had this happen 2 or 3 times. It's sad when friends drop off, but you can still maintain connections if you want, it just takes work. I actually set calendar reminders to check in with folks and make plans. I do the same for old friends who live 8 hours away as well as new folks I've only met once but want to hang out with again.

Making new friends is possible, but again takes effort. Figure out what your interests are and check out Meetup.com or local Facebook groups. If you feel like you don't have any interests then try everything and see what sticks. 

You mentioned jigsaw puzzles, so I'd like to encourage checking out a board game group. I've made some good friends through board games and it's a great way to kill a few hours. Let me know if you're near Atlanta and I can give you the info for my group.
One of life's certainties is Change.

Situations Change, attitudes Change, habits Change, beliefs Change. People Change. You Change.

Accept it as life progression, don't take it personally.
I'm completely detached from my high school friends. I don't say hi when I run into them in public and we don't catch up anymore. Things are better this way.

I stopped caring about whoever doesn't follow up or make time to see me. 

I dropped all the fake people a long time ago.
you're lucky to have a gf though. Just take her and go to meetup events. you don't have to make friends, just socialize and try different things? that can be fun
I find that I don’t care about having friends I just enjoy talking to people. Sometimes. It’s getting shittier cause everyone seems to be so young. When young is your age, it’s not so bad. When I’m chatting with a 20 year old I realize how dirty guys are that date decades younger. Their brain is mush. Personally nill. I was never that dull. How do they do it. Must be the medication. I’m fuckin considering it!
I have this problem and it is getting a bit depressing. I work from home, so no opportunity to have work friends. I go to the gym to workout, not to meet people. I am pretty limited in terms of going out in general. meh.
That's me. I run into people all the time that remember me, call me by name. They remember everything from high school and I don't recognize any of them.
The interplay of location and lifestyle seem to have a bearing on this. Having relocated to a different country and essentially embarking on a fresh journey during my early twenties, I've observed a gradual erosion of memories from my past life. This becomes particularly pronounced during significant life transitions such as starting a new job or moving to a different city and on top that it appears to be a smart process in the sense that, for example, if the likelihood of encountering someone again is minimal, their name tends to fade from recollection within a week, while events and details of greater significance persist in my memory as expected.

I tend to think it’s the brain optimizing.
Were you depressed during your childhood or teen years? It can stop you from forming long-term memories. 

Or did you suffer trauma? And note that this doesn't need to be anything massive, e.g. a home situation where your parents are arguing a lot or emotionally unavailable, can mean that you learn to disassociate for your own emotional wellbeing – and don't form many memories. 

I'm like this too; it's not a big deal – my friends know that I remember nothing. I'm still bad at forming memories, because the habit of disassociating is difficult to shake, even though I'm now "safe". So anything beyond the past couple of years feels like I wasn't there and have no idea what happened.
I was worried about this for a while.

But my life from 21 until now has been just so much more life than the years preceding it.

I've traveled. Been married. Kids. College. Job changes and had a challenging job.

Each year since 21 or so has had 10x the memories of the time before. And more recent memories are more useful.
It might be /r/sdam severely deficient autobiographical memory.
Did you go through a lot of trauma during your younger years? It can be a form of protective amnesia.

I generally remember things quite well, also 38. Even despite going through a lot of trauma - but I just saw a lot of people post what you are describing on PTSD/CPTSD-related forums. In fact, when I saw the title, I thought it was a post on the CPTSD subreddit.
People have mentioned a lot of things that could cause this but I thought I'd throw in another. Do you have, or suspect you have, ADHD? Because this seems to also be common to many with ADHD.
It's not all trauma and childhood related, sometimes your life is just different
Me too. Luckily I wrote a diary all childhood and teen years, since 2010.
I have that issue, and the anwer was anxiety. It makes you distracted so imprinting memories is harder. Not saying that's your case, but it would be interesting to meet a good therapist to answer your questions.
not a great day to share other subs, but check out /r/CPTSDmemes and /r/Adhdmeme to see if anything fits.
I don't know if it is normal, but my husband and his sister always talk about not remembering a bunch. They blame it on the monotomy of their childhood lol which is actually a good thing, I think.
I’m the same way! This is an interesting post. I suspect I may have adhd and also had a traumatic childhood. I’ve always chalked up a lot of my memory loss to “mom brain”, but I just started therapy, so maybe I’ll find some things out about myself.
if you'd had a great time then you might  remember, this kind of memory lapse usually comes with a shitty life.
This is awesome! I wish my old high school would do this! Congrats on the find!
Let me sign it, I will be the first to sign your crack.
Yes, I isolated myself too. I was celibate for 3 years by choice. I cut ties with my family for my own mental health and I stayed busy so I never made time for social events or friends. 

You can always take steps to get out of it. I suggest you do so sooner rather than later. I tried dating back in March but then the pandemic hit. Now I am wondering if I was alone for too long and now I don't how to be with other people.
this is my biggest fear. When my mom passes away one day, I think I will be alone. My brother will not be reliable. Friends always turn out to be less than friends. I have never had a friend who has 100%  had my back.
Yes. I feel like I have isolated myself as well. It sucks.
Join a meetup group (meetup app) after things settle down. It’s a great way to find new friends that share your same interests!
I personally like programming, sports, and art groups.
I'm divorced with no kids, no contact with remaining toxic siblings, lost friends after spending a decade (and my life's savings) solely caring for elderly disabled parents that are now dead.

No one said my life was going to be fair.  But they were my choices, I'd do it all again.
I lost all my friends in my early 30s - totally my fault - and was kind of in exile for a couple years. Was a very lonely time. Now I’m 45, I’ve repaired most of those friendships, made new ones and have an awesome family of my own. Things change.
Time to start calling folks. My friends and I hit that point in our lives and have started making Sunday our check up on mates days. We just spend a good couple hours on the phone checking up on each other. It’s nice. Interpersonal relationships are important for longevity. 

Good luck friend ❤️
I'm sort of jealous. If I didn't have a wife, kids, friends and family I'd be on the first flight to the lowest cost of living tropical beach I could find the very next day.
What do you guys do when you have to name an emergency contact? Or need a medical procedure that requires somebody to take you home?

I don't have many people but I have some. In my future I'm worried about the two questions I asked.
Yes. I mean I have my parents but I'm not really close to them and don't spend much time with them. All my grandparents have died, I am estranged from my uncle and brother, and have no other family. 

I haven't had good friends since junior high. I have no real friend in my life. There's people on Facebook who I've met, but wouldn't say we are friends. I haven't had a boyfriend in a number of years, and the last date I went on was a year ago. I also haven't had sex in 3 years. 

I honestly have no one to talk to. Many times I think I could do 1 of 2 things. I can either accept how people are today (cannot live without social media, always on their phones, don't value my time, are self absorbed, and just want to fuck any halfway decent girl who is willing) settling simply to have someone, or just learn to be my own best friend. I've chosen to be my own best friend but yes I often wish I had human companionship.
Join activities around a hobby — something you genuinely like to do or are interested in. It takes much longer when you’re older but the friends will come over time.
Yep.  My parents live 45 mins away and 1.5 hours away, and when we hang, it usually feels forced. I can't open up to either of them because my mom is compassionate but doesn't really try to 'get' me or whatever. She just says she loves me and seems interested in mindless activities that don't appeal to me (maybe I treat her the same way?). My dad doesn't listen and interrupts/ talks over me...and seems to find joy in talking shit about my brother. My other brother is cool but very religious and most of our conversations are him trying to get me to go to his church.
 
I moved to a new town and met someone immediately. Most (all but one) of the friends I made here I met through her.  Since we split up (2 years later), her friends/ family aren't  assholes...but they don't seem interested in doing anything with me.  
  
I avoid making friends with people at work because it's a small company staffed with people who are culturally way different from me.  
  
The town is small, and most everyone here is either under 25, over 50, or has a small circle of friends that I can't seem to penetrate.  I'm in a 'fuck it' mood ever since the pandemic started, but running out of weed and not being able to find a dealer around here makes it tough.
[deleted]
I know exactly how you feel. And I feel like a lot of villains in comics withstand more punishment than they really should. But then I guess the fights would be a lot less compelling if they were more realistic. Even Watchmen, which as a comic went out its way to be realistic, its film adaptation made the fights over the top superhero action.
I must have been born old. I didn't even talk about Spiderman when I was a kid.
I too liked NWH.  There was a lot of fan-service, but I think that's inevitable in any crossover, because crossover itself really is in itself more or less just fan-service.  I **really** liked Dr. Strange in it, though.  Cumberbatch and Holland feel right out of a comic book when interacting.

I think I agree with you about the TH films -- but I don't think it's fair to consider the first film, without talking about how great Michael Keaton is as The Vulture.  The reveal is 100% Spider-man soap opera, he has an interesting and believable motivation, it's great for world building the (kinda) Marvel Universe, and the tension in that scene where they're in the car?  And the whole "now you're 'The Shocker'" bit cracks me up every time.

So.  I rewatched all the Spider-films after I saw NWH, and I gotta say that I think everyone has given Spider-man 3 a bad wrap.  It's really not that different from the first two, if you understand that Sam Raimi was doing a Silver Age pastiche thing from the beginning -- something that's clear in the first two films. The Venom that we get is **exactly** what a silver age Venom would have been.  The one problem IMO is that because the cast has aged so much, it's just a lot harder to imagine them acting like they did in the previous films.  That's in part why Tobey M's Peter feels, I don't know, stoned, in NWH?  Because it's just weird seeing someone that old being so earnest and nice.  Also maybe Tobey was high.  Hard to know.

RE: Doc Oc.  I don't know if your criticism is for Doc Oc as a Spider-man villain, in general, or just in the film.  Does Peter ever connect a punch on him in the film?  Peter is kind of famous for pulling his blows, and he engages most of those fights still recognizing that Octavius wasn't in his right mind.  In the comics, any time that Peter connects with Otto himself (rather than the arms or harness), it's really bad for Otto, at least as much as I can remember.
I understand the impulse to think through your reflections on a movie. I think you'd benefit from Letterboxd. https://letterboxd.com/film/spider-man-no-way-home/
Ugh nobody talks to me about fun stuff like Spider-Man anymore.
[deleted]
Reddit “popular” page no longer does anything for me. Can’t relate to much of the content. 

More IRL, the most recent one for me is that I suddenly no longer care much about how fast my car is. I’m thinking about safety more and more, and thinking of trading it in for an SUV or something like that.
Sitting down and not moving for a while.
Putting exterior holiday lights on the house. I found it to be fun now that I have one.
early to bed, early to rise.
[deleted]
I used to hate talk radio, other than Howard Stern back in the 90s, I guess podcasts are the new version of talk radio.  I really find myself listening to a lot of true crime and history podcasts these days.  Used to hate that stuff but now I really enjoy it.
Staying in on a Friday night and do absolutely fuck-all.
Listening to NPR
Guys with chest hair
Asparagus
Vegetables. Cooked and seasoned well they can rival steaks. I just never had anyone in my life make them well so I thought they were gross. 

Sounds ridiculous reading it back, but it’s true.
As a guy, women's rights.  I heard stories from people from my mother's generation and women from my own generation and shrugged and thought to myself "at least I'm doing my part by not being a bad guy."  Then I hired a young woman and she started sharing THE SAME STORIES THAT I THOUGHT WE WERE PAST AS A SOCIETY BUT IT KEEPS HAPPENING.

When it hit me how hard it really is to be a woman in this world I went back to my wife that night and talked about everything and she just kind of shrugged in agreement like "yup i live in fear for my safety every day anyway where do you want to go for food?"
- personally, my parents suck. and always have. but I never admitted it to myself and allowed myself to continue being in a shitty, toxic relationship for a while. the problem can't be solved by trying to get them to change. I'd like them to change and have a normal relationship with my folks. but if they're not going to play ball, then I'll stop trying and make myself the person whose opinions I care about. my contentment doesn't depend on others.

- you need to know your values so you can make decisions you'll stand behind.

- be yourself by going with your gut. your intuition is a good guidance system. if you feel one way or another, there's a reason. know what you're feeling and go with it. if people don't like you being authentic and you're not deliberately hurting anyone, then they're not your kind, so let them go.
myself.
Sleeping in a bed instead of someone's futon after drinking. Drinking also cannot happen more than one night per week, and definitely not within 24 hours of work.
Gardening. 


Lots of knowledge I could have absorbed but didn’t see the point at a young age. 


20 years later and now that I have a house and a yard  I love it. So much to learn and do.
the importance of learning about where i come from/how i became the person i am today. truthfully i was never interested in it and i started doing it because it was a means to an end, but i'm finally starting to see the light. it's a lot of hard emotional work. fuck me.
This thread is a little worrying, am pushing 40 and the only one of these that I have done is to learn to enjoy just sitting somewhere quietly.
Woodworking. I do a bit myself but I love looking at and trying to figure out how fantastic pieces were made. I have a favorite woodworker now, his name is Sam Maloof (RIP). Younger me would have looked at his stuff and said "so what it's a weird chair" 30's me looks at it and I'm amazed at the detail and consistency.

Money does not equal happiness. If your bills are paid and food is on the table life is what you make it. If my job becomes too stressful to enjoy other aspects of my life, the one's that actually matter, then it's time to find another job.
Folding my underwear
Fishing. Such a luxury.
A lot of foods that I wouldn't have been open to before. My palate has definitely changed and I enjoy trying new things. Olives stand out the most. As a kid I was offered a green olive with pimento, turns out I don't like it specifically but I decided all olives were bad. Black olives and Kalamata olives are amazing and gave me a new appreciation for Mediterranean foods!

Also video games. I never really played them as a girl with 3 brothers and the oldest. It was seen as more of their thing in our house. I always thought I was bad at them and they weren't for me. Turns out I am actually pretty good at a few of them and I like trying new ones. There are so many different genres and every gamer has a preference. Watching other people play is still something I really enjoy too, so Let's Plays and streams are helping me "git gud".  I'm still struggling to compete with the toxic 12 year-olds tho. lol
Running. Vegetables and fruit.
I started eating oatmeal... always thought that it was gross. Once as a child my dad made me eat a whole bowl of plain oatmeal and that ruined it for me for about 30 years.
I Stargirl Interlude jazz music last year when I started to work from home. I will shrink YouTube and find some easy listening to have in the background music while I was on the laptop. It helps.
the thing that no one seems to talk about is that you're responsible for creating your own life. when you're younger you don't need to put in effort because your parents create your life and you're surrounded by your peers who are in similar life stage as you for ~22 years. when you're older this isn't the case. the solution is to focus on the present, instead of the past. of course it's easier said than done. 

i'm around your age and a few years ago i quit my job and career to find myself. it's been a hell of a ride and i'm not there yet, but i'm slowly starting to see the light. this has been the hardest thing i've ever had to do but it's rewarding.
I recognize the thoughts you have - I have some similar ones, and I don't have any other answer to "Why live?" than "I don't want to die", and "Because I can". The last one really is where I find some spirit and fighting will. Life is fairly pointless and bleak, so why not just try to master it and see what happens? It doesn't really give fulfillment, but any other option creates other problems I want to avoid.
You sound like you're overly attached to your body (vitality, maybe appearance too) and your relationship history. I think these things bother most people but we all deal with it, or cover it, differently.

Loneliness, futility and drudgery. Our way of life is pretty unbalanced because these things are common. That's this world. The redemption is not in chasing externalities, as inevitably all is taken from you at death, but in pursuing the internal wisdom and understanding of life and yourself.. that is the way to peace.

Thinking things through, contemplating, is the remedy to existential depression. It doesn't change the outside but only your perception of it. You become indifferent to the impermanence by seeking out what is permanent, and along the way you develop acceptance of what is. That is liberation.

I might succeed in material aspects, I might not. Either way it doesn't bother me. Knowing I will eventually have it all taken away anyway puts my anxiety in God's court, it's not my problem.

I feel your position. I get it. I know the state of mind you're in. I'm not without my wobbles. But all I would say is pursue the inner understanding, make time and space to just sit and think.. work through your past history, let it go.. that's what's nagging you, your attachment to your story.
It... Doesn't tho. I moved states in my 40s, got married at 39, I got a secret for you dude. Life only gets boring and stagnant when you let it, and youth means a lot of things. I don't still do the mma shit I used to, I don't have time for it. Do I do parkour anymore? Nah, probably could tho. What I do? Spend time with my wife, work on new recipes, go hiking and backpacking, camp, target shoot, she hunts, video games... You sound like you're letting society dictate to you what being your age is supposed to mean. And you know what else it sounds like? Seriously, you need to hear these words.  


You're having a midlife crisis, and *that is totally fine*. 

Being aware of it lets you fix it. You'll lose friends, that happens. I've lost many to overdoses and two best friends to either suicide or murder respectively. It gets better, you'll eventually meet new people and form new ones. Those friends you had didn't come from nowhere, but you won't ever make a new best friend if you compare them to the old ones. They're not, they're the new them. I got a divorce from my first wife, she was a cheater. It gets better, my new one's 26 and just amazing. Why does that feel different than in your 20s? HORMONES. You don't have magical sparkle lovey dovey time now (although it sure as fuck can happen) but you're much more likely to know what it takes to keep a real relationship going with all the experience and wisdom age (hopefully) brings. My wife and I wouldn't have worked 15 years ago. I mean she'd be 11, but more importantly I wasn't who I needed to be for it to work at that time. Maybe you're not done cooking yet either?  


Think of it this way dude, you'll walk out of your own crisis with more self awareness and a deeper respect of the world around you. That's way better than ditching your wife and buying a Miata. Me? Fuck, at 35 I moved from Georgia to Montana for a girl I'd never met face to face. We all do weird shit around that age, I think. A little introspection isn't the worst you could have pulled.
My life hasn't stagnated at all and I am pushing 50. I graduated college at 40. Moved across country at 42. Met my love and moved in together only 7 years ago. 

I could list two dozen things I have done since 30 that would be considered major life changes and I plan on continuing to move towards new experience and new things to learn.

Last year I started volunteering at a local organization that works a lot with first responders. Up until that point my only interaction with cops was being arrested for weed. Now I grow weed legally and work with police helping around the community. I even got elected into a leadership position with the group, which is funny because I am an introvert with a real self confidence issue but I made a lot of friends and people kinda like me. 15 years ago none of this would be possible. 

Oh and I learned how to code over the pandemic (python) and now I have picked up webpage design because I got a gig helping a local semipro baseball team build a new website.

You can either see life as empty or full... From there everything you do will be colored by that perspective. I have a list of things I want to do before I shuffle off this mortal coil... Death will be an inconvenience.

I hope you learn to see life as full... Because it's glorious when you do.
Alcohol....for me it's beers and scotch.
It's kinda cliche but whenever I start to feel this way, I make it a point to do good/kind things for others. Helping people makes me happy and feel like I have a purpose. I also try to remember that I have control of my life and what I do with it. If it ever became too much I'd pack up my shit and make a different life. There are no rules man, you can sell the house, go back to school, move to a different state or country. 
I'm in weekly therapy and take meds to keep me level, it seems to do the trick for the most part. 

I hop you find something that brings you some joy, you're super young still, so much life to live.
this comment section does not pass the vibe check

I hear you OP. Are you at least at peace day to day? Do you have any bad health issues physical or mental that make life hard? Right now I'm just trying to have days feel peaceful, as someone who suffers from panic disorder.

Sending love! 💜
All this loss you describe is so subjective! People lose so much to grow and accomplish all their goals. Maybe you can't see the forest for the trees?

You've gained so much as well! The intangibles like experiences and relationships are much more important than material status or wealth.

No doubt you have plenty of events and influential people in your life that you owe your gratitude.
Read the book *The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck* by Mark Mason. Or listen to the audiobook. He addresses most of what you’re talking about here. 

I can see exactly what you’re saying and there’s some great stuff in that book.
I have a wife, kids, family, and friends. People are what make life worth living.
How do I deal with it ?


I live day to day, early morning commute lets me see a beautiful new day dawn, my job let's me meet new people, solve problems, get physical with work and it gives me an opportunity to enjoy the success of a completed job. 

I've lost alot of friends, mostly through my own doing, but this leaves me open to new friendships whenever possible. It is sad to feel like old friends have passed you by but that is a part of life. It dosen't mean you'll never see or hear from them, but it might be years until you touch base again.

I see my family each week, talk to the nieces and nephews and play with their dog. We talk about new decks, haircuts, kids spending too much time on the computer, just random stuff.

I go to the gym, focus on my strength and fitness, try to eat healthy. Some of the fittest people there are in their 40s and 50s which is inspiring. I'd like to be as fit and healthy as them at that age.

I'm learning new things like programming and autocad, the piano how to dealift with perfect form.

I have plans to travel, backpacking at first and in luxury later on.

Finally i'm still looking for a partner for life, a woman who will be in my corner, us against the rest. It's a constant struggle and I feel alone most of the time but I remind myself that I have to keep trying to find her, I don't want to be alone.

I deal with the loss of my youth by focusing on the future and how bright tomorrow will be. I believe my life will keep getting better aslong as I continue to put in the love, time and effort into the people, interests and random things I enjoy and take an interest in.

It seems like you keep looking back, when you should be looking forward.

Why would you put in the effort?

Happiness, warm hugs, tasty chocolates, feeling good in a new pair of pants, lots of random stuff that make you happy at any point of the day.


What's the point of trying?

Because giving up isn't an option. Life is for living.


Life isn't as easy as it used to be?

Nope, I think it keeps getting harder too, sore joints and bad eyesight etc, but that is apart of aging, a reason to look after your health, physically and mentally, it can be another hobby, one that is forever adapting to your bodies needs and to the challenge of keeping your mind sharp.

You'll be ok OP, just keep looking forward.
Yep its gone...but your life isn't over.  Quit being a downer and go out and do something.  Better yet: do something that scares you.
I really can’t understand your P.O.V. To me, every day is gift. I’m lucky / fortunate / happy to be alive. Living in the past can lead to sadness and being in the future can lead to anxiety. Why not just be present and enjoy the day?
Think of all the great restaurants you have never eaten in. The cities you have never been to. Parks you have never hiked in. 
I’m 44 years old and while I feel like every year has been better than the previous, I’m sure that isn’t the case. But life is awesome right now, no need to compare it to the past or future. Maybe you just haven’t had sex in too long or something. I suggest you try meditation and start living a life of gratitude. If you feel like life is meh, make yourself of service. Go volunteer somewhere and help others. Peace.
Well, my youth was terrible, so...
While I am in exactly the same position as you, feeling like my life os mostly over, I think the amswer is to go find something to enjoy. 

We are past the point where we can deny being an adult now, it is on us to find purpose and meaning in life. 

Find some hobbies to lose yourself in, join social events. Fight fucking aging while we can. 

We have a lot of years to go and I intend to enjoy them if I can. 

Course the crushing depression may be winning right now, but it hasn't managed to kill me in thirty seven years, It can keep waiting.
Pining for youth is like a fruit pining to stay unripe. The older you get the more you realize how little you understood when you were younger. Life has seasons and the priority and focus of each is different than the last. You need to rotate 180 degrees and stop looking at a youth that will be forever gone and instead look forward at your future and decide who and what you want to be and what you'd like to get out of life. This is the turning point in life. At some point you realize you were kicked out of the youth club without realizing it. The panic of that being gone can hit you suddenly as the midlife crisis, even if a few years early in your case. The resolution is this 180 rotation I mentioned. 

You will go through the same seasons of life as everyone else, and just like everyone else, those seasons will be different. Everyone mourns the loss of youth and then they get on with it and realize after a while that they no longer want to be a kid. People build their lives and no one builds it for them. If it takes more work later, it takes more work. But no one will do it for you.
You have expectations.

Don’t.

Enjoy life as it is.

If you or someone you know is contemplating suicide, please reach out. You can find help at a National Suicide Prevention Lifeline

USA: 18002738255
US Crisis textline: 741741 text HOME

United Kingdom: 116 123

Trans Lifeline (877-565-8860)

Others: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_suicide_crisis_lines

https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org
I've had a long time to deal with it.

I was old and busted even as a pre-teen.
You feel this way because your life doesn't fulfill you. You expected it to be different and now when you can't meet those expectations anymore you feel disappointed. It just turns out that you just exist and pass time waiting for death. I would work on your mindset.
I've always been a misanthrope, got diagnosed with depression when I was mid-20s, but the meds didn't work and dealing with the industry was frustrating, so I stopped. I'm moderately functional most days anyway, with occasional bumps in the road.

I feel a lot like you. "What's the point? Do I even want this? Why did get out of bed this morning? Life just gets worse as we age (I posted a similar thing a while back).

I often feel like I want to die, but like you, have never actually tried to do the deed. More like "I hope I get hit by a bus today."

No real answers, but here's one thing I do every morning when I'm struggling:

I ask "am I going to kill myself today?"

The answer so far has always been no.

So I get the hell up and try to make the best of my day.

If I'm going to live, I want to *live*, not wander around like a zombie.

Works most days.
Life doesn’t get worse, it changes.   We learn how to go with the flow.
Last month at 59 I went indoor rock climbing.

On the one hand I was only able to climb 40’ twice…. And that sucked because I Was a great athlete.

On the other hand I thought to myself….  Damn at 59 that’s damn good!

The cup will always be half full or half empty…

The choice is ours.
Oh god, this is where it gets good my friend. Youth is fleeting, remember it and learn from it but don’t dwell on it.
In our 20s we were pretty immature, we don't have enough money to really get serious in doing anything we want in our lives, just going with the flow (except for a few who have it all figured out earlier).

I think of my 20s as like a free trial -- it's the first chapter of adulthood and it gave me a taste of freedom to just let loose as if there's no tomorrow. No plans. Just full of consumption when it comes to anything. Partying 'till dawn. Binge-watching shows. Just eating whatever I want. Buying a lot of stuff I won't really use. I did regret wasting a lot of time/money but at the same time, I've had fun. Good memories were made then and a lot of lessons were learned.

Now in my 30s, I am trying to live a more goal-oriented life. It's like, this is it. It's no longer a free trial. It's now a paid subscription. Whatever I decide to do from here on will shape the rest of my life. I should take control from now on and architecture my days towards pursuing my passions and adhering to my core values. No more wasting time.

Like I am earning a good living and I can practically buy most of the things I want -- not flashy material possessions but tools that will help me get serious with my interests. Last time, I would use iPhone apps to dabble with mixing music. But then I asked myself, why not take this seriously? I love listening to music and know a little bit of piano. If other people can do it, why can't I? So I bought industry-grade music production tools and enrolled in music theory/production classes. I want to start creating serious tracks with the goal of distributing them to the public by the end of the year (or however long it takes).

I also started inline skating in my 30s. I never for the life of me thought I have good balance. But I saw some speed skaters while I was jogging one day and I thought, again, why not? It looks exhilarating. So I decided to buy a really good pair of inline skates and enrolled in private lessons. Today, I am not a speed skater but I am able to skate confidently in a lot of different terrains, do spins, skate backwards, and do a bunch of other tricks. It brings me a lot of joy and health benefits as well. I've also gained new friends, even older adults, who love to skate also. We go around the neighborhood weekly and challenge ourselves with more difficult terrains / improve our speed.

Yes, it's the loss of youth but it's also the start of the rest of your life. A whole new world opens up when you set goals and just be open to new experiences.

I guess, don't look at having more wealth, having a house, or having a good career as the end goal. Use this as your solid foundation to pursue your interests (old or new). Don't limit yourself and try new things. Start to set more goals, even if they seem out of reach. Besides having loved ones by your side, continuously discovering the world and your own capabilities are what makes life worth living.
I find myself in my mid 30s mourning the loss of my youth and also fearing the impending doom of my future.

I'm my 20s I definitely never worried about the future.

Decades later my expenses have gone up exponentially and wages have not competed.

Growing up, I always remember my dad telling me how bad it sucked to get poorer every year, and I'd never really understood "yeah it isn't 1976 anymore"

However now that I've experienced it personally, I've moved a few times and rent keeps going up, gas, groceries,

I work in construction and fix a lot of rentals and I'm always seeing folks in their 60s who can no longer work hard enough to afford rent, they work their whole lives, destroy their bodies, and one heart attack or serious medical issue can render them nearly homeless. They have nowhere to go.

I know I need to make some serious changes if I ever want to be able to take a trip or buy a house or get out of the cycle I am in. However, it is difficult when you struggle with health issues and feel dead inside like the shell of the person you once were.

I don't necessarily think that I'm "old" I've just lost all hopes and dreams for my future.

My 20s I was full of life and dreams and passion. Now I'm just jaded and miserable.
I am 70, and I think you are in the toughest years of your life because you are loaded with responsibilities, some of which you didn’t ask for. It’s just how we live these days, and it can be soul-sucking. Your mistake is thinking that life is only good when you’re young. Life is hardest when you are young because you are establishing yourself: find a job, find a mate, buy a house, raise the kids, get a masters degree, look at colleges , etc etc etc.

As you get older, responsibilities fall away one by one. You get more time, more wisdom, more appreciation for your accomplishments, and life gets better and better. Sex gets better. Friends become like family.

If you can, plan new things to do, places to go, and give yourself something to look forward to.

At 70, I am happier than ever. I’m not writing a thesis, running after a child, sitting in a meeting, or planning a damn wedding.

My advice to you is get into an exercise groove and continue all through your life. You don’t have to deteriorate with age. Don’t do things you don’t want to do, even if they are what’s expected. And get out in nature, the sun, and fresh air. Only do what feels good to you, and you will get happier as you get older. Being older is like having a never-ending summer vacation. Really. My best to you.
Hahahahahahaha
As someone who is constantly talking to himself I love it
My wife came up with a game back when we met in 2008. 

Crazy or bluetooth?
I’m still self conscious when I’m using my AirPods in public
I always assumed they were thinking out loud.
This is one of the reasons I’ve come to love wearing a mask.
I'll be honest, I still have a visceral reaction to people talking to themselves. It takes me a little while to come to the conclusion that they are probably on the phone.
Why do you think this is?
Waiting for AR glasses to be common place, then it will be normal for people to see things that aren't there.
Hot take from fifteen years ago.
[deleted]
&gt; For those who are/were... of a similar disposition, how did you come to terms with life's difficulties? Or didn't you? 

By altering my brain chemicals.

Our perception of reality is entirely determined by this ugly hunk of neurons inside our skull, so if reality isn't enjoyable, we've got to do some mods to change that.

It's not an easy or quick process, and it's filled with promising starts that dead end or worse, become addictions, but with years of trial and error, I feel like I'm finally on a mix that lets me enjoy things the way normal people seem to do.

It's nice.
For me, it’s a couple of things. One is therapy. I’ve had to spend some time talking about my issues and trying to sort them out and figure out why I am who I am. For a while, it required medication. I’ve gotten off the medication and instead exercise. Recently, I’ve had to go back. 

The second part, which is connected to the therapy, is having an understanding of the world around us is mostly out of our control and being able to turn off your brain (mostly). The way I look at it, and I came to this after years of therapy, we are all termites on an ant hill and my actions and thoughts and feelings are insignificant in the bigger picture. Most people are just trying to get by and make sense of this weirdness just as much as I’m trying to. 

I cannot control most things but I do control my reactions. So I’m just going to make due and try, like you, to put some good vibes into this situation. Because, honestly, what else can we do?

Maybe this helps you, or maybe it doesn’t. But that’s how I’ve been able to deal with this rock that we live on, though, admittedly, the past year has really tested me (as well as most others).
There's a support group for that. It's called everybody, and they meet at the bar. - Drew Carey
I withdraw and self-isolate. I wouldn't recommend it.
There's a lot of good practical advice on this thread, but I just wanted to address your remark about that feeling of meaninglessness.

Don't discount the significance of meaningfulness as a subjective experience. We are, as far as we know, the sole bearers of "meaning" in the universe. There is no other configuration of matter that perceives meaningfulness. So if you constantly tell yourself that something doesn't have meaning because the cosmos is blind to it, then you will never find meaning.

But what it means is that we are also the guardians and judges of meaning. All it takes for something to be meaningful is for one of us to perceive it as meaningful. A plant dying in a pot can be meaningful. Holding a baby can be meaningful. Watching a sunset can be meaningful. Sure, the stars don't care but that's because they can't. It's like an eye saying what it sees isn't real because the rest of the body doesn't see it.

I don't mean this in a sentimental or metaphysical sense. I mean it in a real cosmological sense. We are plain matter which has developed the ability to see meaning. The fact that nothing else anywhere in this vast cosmos (that we know of) can do the same doesn't make our perceptions less valid - *it makes us incredibly special and valuable in the universe*.
I can relate to feeling sad frequently about a lot of different things despite being objectively fortunate. For me I think it’s because I have an overwhelmingly high capacity for empathy. Sometimes I can compartmentalize it, sometimes not. I don’t have an answer for you, I’m trying to figure it out too.
Hey - so firstly, I just wanted to say that I think you're doing an amazing job of having the tough and honest conversation with yourself, acknowledgement which I believe to be the most difficult part. You're clearly someone that doesn't mind going deeper.

I wanted to point out one thing you said that *from the perspective of someone that considers themself happy by choice*, feels off -

&gt; By choosing to ignore the sad things all around them.

This is actually an assumption.! Choosing to be happy does not mean turning a blind eye to suffering, pain, sadness. In fact I would say that when done properly, one is fully aware and actively works to come to terms with these things (and it's never ending work, btw.) The difference is that when you choose to be happy, you look for reasons to be optimistic or hopeful **despite** all of those shitty things. It's like choosing to say a big **FUCK YOU** to sadness, the bullshit, the injustice, the pain - because the opposite option is to become part of the sadness. To me, choosing happiness is choosing to rage, to rebel.

I believe humanity is absolutely fucked in the future. **Despite** this, I think there's something cosmically beautiful about us dumb-ass, self-sabotaging apes trying to figure it out and un-fuck it before time runs out (even though we'll fail.) It's all very ephemeral - no one will remember and the universe won't acknowledge it one bit. But none of that changes the fact that we're here right now *anyway*, you know?

I've rambled a bit but I hope that provides some fresh perspective on the "choose" part. Rooting for you.
1.  Know what you do &amp; do not have control over
2.  Be grateful for all the good things.
3.  Suck it up buttercup. Time is a female dog and ya gotta be patient.  It always starts out tough before it gets easier.  Sometimes there is a time line for whatever it is and sometimes there isn't.  
4.  Care about things that -really- matter.  Roof over your head, food in your belly, being around people that are supportive of you (community) etc.  

Lol.  I'm not one for suicidal tendencies and I know that every day is some sort of 'new day'.  So take a deep breathe and do what you gotta do.
You're going to find whatever you look for. And you're looking for sadness.
&gt;For those who are/were... of a similar disposition, how did you come to terms with life's difficulties? Or didn't you?

I haven't, really. :( I take medication and all that but it just feels like a band aid. I'd like to find a good therapist because maybe that would help but its really difficult to find one with proper experience.  (Like experience with older autistic women etc) I mostly just keep to myself and don't leave the house much these days.
Are you happy with who you are at a basic level. Do you like spending time alone with yourself? Are you your own friend? Life is always going to have difficulties. There is no one true or right path. You have to make the most of what you have and can do for yourself. Do others have an easier path, some might. Do others have a harder path than you, yes. But the thing you need to recognize is that what looks easy or hard is in the eyes of the beholder.
You just have to stay positive like me. I just think that everything will be okay just let it be and if tomorrow the world ends that’s even better.
Therapy!
IMO nihilism is a self inflicted injury. There is no "truth" or "benefit" to be found within it, just an absence of meaning that ends up causing harm.

I think you'd really benefit from reading Jordan Peterson, particularly 12 rules for life, because that book is specifically intended to be an antidote for exactly the situation you find yourself in. Or even if you don't like to read, just watch some of his videos on youtube, even those have been an immense help in my life.
Reminds me of the scene from *That 70's Show*     


(Red's car. The windows are steamed up. A hand slaps the back window, ala Titanic. A police officer approaches and taps the window with his flashlight.)   

Cop: Okay kids, break it up! Let’s go! (he shines the flashlight on them and Red looks up.) Wow, hey, you’re adults!     

Red: Damn right, we’re adults.    

Cop: I’m sorry, sir. My mistake.    

Red: That’s quite alright, we all make mistakes. Now, why don’t you go bust some pot-smoking teenagers before I give you a good adult-size kick in the ass?      

Cop: Yes sir, thank you, sir! Enjoy your evening!     

Kitty: Oh Red, that was so sweet, you let him off with a warning!     
Once you notice that none of the athletes in your favorite sports are younger than you it hits home. Luckily not for  [the sport I follow](http://i.imgur.com/Sayj5.jpg).
I think my favorite think about Reddit is the way it validates me... The things I think, and not sure how they'd sound out loud, even safely hidden by the semi-anonymity of the inter-webs. Thanks for sharing this one because at 37 I know it to be true.
First it was major league baseball pitchers - that sucked. Then cops. Then BOSS one time (horrible). Then doctor. Having a doctor younger than you is weird. You want to call him Skippy. You picture him stepping out of the room and furiously flipping through a book to find an answer. And when you're talking about serious stuff, you kind of want to ask them if they could go out and bring back a real doctor. It's hard to see them as self assured as an older doctor.
Ugh! I hate that. I remember when everyone was older than me, even movie stars. I miss that.
Conversely, as a childfree and not technically married person in my later 30s I somehow see people with children as **real** adults even if they're 5 or even 10 years younger than me.
I specifically look for younger docs. Not necessarily younger than I am (yet), but not *significantly* older than I am. I want whoever's looking under the hood, as it were, to have gone to school at least recently enough that they aren't gonna be using outdated technology or techniques out of pure crotchety orneriness.

...Like the semi-fossilized dentist I went to as a kid, right when the AIDS crisis was emerging, who insisted that it was all a big (government?) hoax and that he never used gloves (!!!!!) before and wasn't gonna start now. Mercifully the Barbasol or whatever he washed his hands with worked, BC I never got oral herpes or hepatitis or anything :/ Crazy ol' fucker.


This scares the shit out of me. A family member recently spent some time in the hospital, and the nurses and staff were all *kids*! I really couldn't believe how young they all seemed. I couldn't help but think "there's no way in hell you're old enough to be sticking needles into people", but I'm extremely grateful for the wonderful job they did.

I'm dreading the day when I'm older than the people holding public office.
I put together a reddit get together at an upscale Bar / Lounge in Boston and there was an Air Force Captain who teaches at MIT that called me Sir there. Great guy. 

I was enlisted from the ages of 19-23. Felt weird man dot jay peg but I'm used to the sir thing now days.
I'm there. It's weird. One of the weirdest feelings is when one of the kiddos starts acting stern-for-your-own-good. It's funny and sad at the same time. The one thing I won't stoop to is a therapist younger than I am. 
I'm just glad I haven't experienced the "My boss is younger than me" thing yet. 
You know what is really weird to me is seeing [this guy(Kurt Cobain)](http://www.anothermag.com/current/view/1425/Kurt_Cobain) as younger than me.
We're kind of on the in-between scale now, 20s lifestyle is over but not old enough to be sat with a pipe and slippers watching the weather on a TV 😆
My normal life didn't really begin until I turned 30, when I started seeing a therapist and going on meds. Presently 38... Great job and a nice home, a beautiful wife and daughter.. I worked hard for it. I still think a lot about "am I old?" all of the time as well and I still get existential dread, but there's momentum and a direction in life, I think focusing on that can help a lot, a hobby, club, job or school, can also lead to opportunities meeting people as friends or dates. I think when you are doing things in life, people will find you. It's only when you sit still and do nothing you lose that kind of gravity (though my therapist once said doing nothing is still doing something, it's a matter of perspective).
TLDR, you’re just getting into your prime. If you don’t already have your shit figured out, you’re probably close to it. Exercise, eat well, take care of your body and mind. Don’t rush into anything for fear of running out of time. 


42m here. Met my wife when I was about your age - online dating. Rushed into it a bit for reasons you can probably identify with. She wanted her aged grandmother at the wedding. I agreed because she was smart, funny, attractive, mostly stable, and I wasn’t getting any younger. 

She decided about a month ago she’s gay, which makes sense in retrospect.  No regrets on my part. I got some great kiddos and a lot of memories, some great some not so great, and she helped me be a better man. 

I’m pretty terrified about what’s next. For now we seem to be in a holding pattern, both not wanting to go through divorce, financial ruin, part-time with the kids, all that. It’s weird having a name for why our sex life is what it is, and I’ve been thinking along the lines of what’s best for the kids and what’s best for both of our happiness long term. I don’t have the answers for my own problems, but hopefully this helps you.
32F. I think what you’re feeling is really normal. I’m learning to embrace the crisis bc it has started to illuminate what is important to me. Maybe finding a partner is becoming something you really want to pursue. 

Maybe you will or maybe not, but soul searching is a worthy endeavor and we are not old lol. Not yet.
I'm 34, got covid in July, had the 'meltdown' oh I'm going to do everything healthy and exercise more, of course once I got over Covid that never happened. I've been in existential panic for years I wouldn't worry about it.
I’m 45 and I don’t feel old yet, nor do I think my active guy friends look or act any older than they did 10-20 years ago. I have a friend that’s 60, half my size, and he could beat my ass in a heartbeat. Age is what you make it. Just don’t slow down and let yourself get soft and lazy.      


Most women my age look older to me now, but not usually in a negative way. I can just tell that they are older. I’ve never dated as a “mature” adult, so I can’t say what that’s like. But I do know some pretty spectacular single women, so I know they’re out there.
34 isn’t old. I started my “get back in shape” journey about then and by now (43) have achieved a lot vs what I had as early goals. Probably more, tbh.

None of us are guaranteed anything. Don’t worry about “old” because we’ll get there if we’re lucky. And mid 30s aint it. 

Covid caused extensive existential panic for everyone. Society is kinda trying to figure out how to get over it still I think. 😂
I wouldn't worry too much about growing old, it only happens if you're lucky.  

I read a quote once that summed it up nicely, "The 40's are the old age of youth.  The 50's are the youth of old age."
I feel like your 30s is the best time of your life. Your are financial stable enough (hopefully) to fully enjoy yourself and have learned enough life lessons ( also hopefully) to be in healthy relationships. I met my girlfriend at 34 and she is the healthiest relationship I’ve ever been in.
Brother, I can relate. My birthday was earlier in the month.
I leaned into the thoughts about aging and death and really examined it. I came to the conclusion that no matter what eventually, everyone is forgotten. Kings and peasants alike. Kings take longer to be forgotten but eventually it will happen. 

One day I will be forgotten, just like everyone else. 

And I've come to the realization that, that's okay. It happens to everyone. I'm going to spend the time I have here, on the things and people I love. I'm going to pursue my interests and focus on the impact I have on the people closest to me- because that is all I will leave behind that has any value at all.

So because the only thing that matters is the impact I have on those closest to me I'm going to make damn sure I'm the best father and husband I can be. When I'm gone even they will forget most of the times we had together but they will remember how I loved them and the things I taught them and my daughter will go on to love her children the same way and teach her children the same things I taught her and her children will do the same and in that way, I will live forever. 

You're going to get old, you're going to die, your name will be forgotten but the impact you have last long after the world has forgotten your name.

You get to decide if that impact is a good one or not.

Enjoy the ride and embrace being forgotten.
I wouldn't put much stock in your bodies response to covid as an indicator of your overall health or vitality. It's a weird disease that hits randomly.

I just got through my first bout 2 weeks ago. It put me on my ass for a week, but my 71 year old father in law who smokes a pack a day also caught it at the same same.. he just had a few days of sniffles, but was otherwise fine.

There's also lots of cases of very young, otherwise healthy people getting [absolutely destroyed by it.](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-wales-62041613)

It's a weird bug. Literally a roll of the dice in terms of severity.
32F here and I definitely get the dread. COVID and the pandemic really triggered my anxiety and it seems I think about it often. My parents are showing age and my remaining grandparents are doing well. Everyone in my circle of life that’s my age is married and has kids except me and one or two others. On the contrary, some have also divorced. But yeah, I feel all of it. Only thing to get past it I’ve found, which seems to be temporary, is to distract myself. Exercise. Reading. Gardening. Etc.
I have somehow avoided covid, but in the last couple years, all of my seasonal colds have started escalating into sinus infections. It sucks.

I am also young-looking and fit. Piercings and a shaved head will do that, as it turns out. Most don't believe I am the age I say I am, but man, I *feel* it. The way my hips pop after a long run, how sensitive my stomach is nowadays,... Plus I work with teens and wow, they will definitely remind you how old you are without prompting.

I don't know. Regarding dating, I'm not doing that, but I have plenty of friends that are and they seem fine. In fact, they seem like they're having a great time. 

I still do stupid stuff all the time, maybe more so now because I have money. I work out a ton, I play video games, I go to comic cons and concerts, I took surf lessons in Costa Rica just before covid.
aving a good attitude about things really does make a huge difference. 
Age... isn't *just* a number, I can't lie to myself like that, but h

Just do you. (And try not to look in the mirror too much)
just get on the divorce subreddit to feel better, thats what i do. Or go on relationships subreddit etc. 

&amp;#x200B;

I get how you feel but thats what i do to remind myself, i could always have it worse. AND relationships dont always mean happiness, atleast not in my case. I always am exponentially happier when im single.
I linked this to my 29 year old female friend.  He had ugly things to say to me in response.  I'm 52, so I found the whole thing hilarious :)
I do not understand their appeal. Or the attitude. Your 30s are an amazing time to be single. You've grown into yourself and have a much better idea of what you want. Not to mention the (hopefully) financial stability to make relationship decisions without economics involved. Plus, there are real benefits to marrying later: lower divorce rate, more varied sex life pre-marriage, children born to older parents (up to a point) have better outcomes. I got married at 40 and wouldn't change a thing. I've had experiences and opportunities I never would have had without that kind of freedom. 

That's fucking brilliant.  I love those two.
I have such a crush on Riki. 
Oh my gosh. Yes. 

Number one thing I would tell myself would be: attention that makes you feel uncomfortable is NOT better than no attention at all. You do not need to do or say things that feel wrong just to keep someone’s interest. 

The trajectory of my life would have been SO different. I’m convinced.
I wish I could go back and tell my 16 y/o self and my willfully ignorant parents what health (and mental health) conditions to get me tested for so I wouldn’t spend years suffering, alienate all my friends, and wind up disabled as a young adult 😬

I mean uh relive the fun times yes I am a normal person who relates to this
When i see a kid on the street, i want to just go up to them, grab them by the shoulders and yell in their face "savour these years!".
You know, we all feel this way sometimes. Looking back with the glasses of experience. Much like you I didn't get my shit together until I was in my late 20s and even at that time I felt super behind and pretty much still am, I'll retire when I stop breathing but I don't regret anything. The experiences you had when younger made you appreciate what you have now so much more than having a blessed life would have. 

I remember those days of drinking myself to sleep since beer was cheaper then food. 

In regards to your grandmother specifically, she may be gone but she survives with you by her memory. 

I feel like so many of us are super hard on ourselves when we've been doing the best we can with what we've got. 

Take the time to spread the joy of your life with others, help where you can, don't overextend yourself, just be good and decent, I'm sure your grandmother wants that for you. 

Sorry, I lost track of where I was going but you should be proud to by your turnaround.
I would go back and tell me 21 year old self to get myself and my daughter away from her abusive dad. To run. I would tell myself that at the end he would have finally worn she and I both down emotionally, ran through my life savings/inheritance and left me broken as a person. I was so brainwashed for so long. So much trauma and hurt. And I let her stay in that environment far longer than I should have. We had a long heart to heart today and I spent a lot of it promising I’d get better and explaining my reasons for making the choices I did, even though looking back they weren’t the best ones. She forgave me. I have other weights of the world on my shoulders, but that one heavy weight in my heart is not quite so hard to carry now. 

I love her and I would do so much differently.
I think about things like this often. I poured so much time into things that were fine, but not the direction my life ended up going in.

Had I known the direction I would go, I could have started right away instead of the false starts until I was 30.
I couldn't agree more to all of this. Thanks for vocalizing it so clearly :-)
Nah. Never wish to go back. Everything you went through, every choice you made, contributed to who you have become. "But I could have been better if I changed _________, right?" 

Nope. Because you wouldn't have had the insight you do now to avoid making those kinds of mistakes. 

Enjoy the struggles of your past. You're the marble and the sculptor, there's got to be some sweat and pain to make something of yourself. 

Also, don't spend your time longing for the past. It's gone. Next thing you know you'll be in your 40's wishing you hadn't wasted your 30's missing your 20's.... so on so forth. Enjoy your 30's. They'll be gone before you know it.
For me it was GERD, only went away after I lost about 15ish pounds and watched my trigger foods
That fuckin sucks man, I'm sorry. Hope the allergist catches it.

My eyes have gotten so bad over the last 10 years that now I need custom hard contact lenses that cost $1000.

Putting them in Monday morning, I knocked one off the lenses off the counter. I caught it, but I squeezed it too hard on the catch and it snapped in half. $1k gone in half a second.
That stinks. Hope your specialist finds the issue.

For me, I'm approaching middle age myself and i have coughing fits near bed time or even in the middle of the night if i lay down too soon after eating a lot. From what i understand, that kind of thing is common and thankfully the solution is reasonable - don't lay down immediately after a big meal.
Are you on any blood pressure medications by any chance? I was on one that had cough as a side effect. I didn’t have the cough right away but after a couple months I got a lingering cough that wouldn’t go away. When I changed blood pressure medication the cough went away.
Some medications cause it, but I’d have guessed your PCP/GP would have caught that. Seeing an ENT is also an option.
Check out if there happens to be mold growing anywhere (vents) you're stuck frequently. It's not always the sort of thing that will kill you, but even a mild growth can cause trouble like yours.
If it's asthma/allergies, singulair would probably help! You could also try an air purifier and a humidifier.
Sounds like you want a pulmonologist not an allergist. The pulmonologist will look at your airways and can tell if they are inflamed or obstructed or if something else is going on. Especially if it happens in all different environments and is getting worse, and you checked out the possibility of acid reflux and you’re not on an ACE inhibitor for blood pressure.
There’s loads of reasons this might be happening but istg breathing techniques can help solve it or at least alleviate it. Coughing makes coughing worse so you’ve got to try and intercept before it gets to the bad stages which is mostly about managing the irritants and how you encounter them, aka breathing.

See if you can get an appointment with a speech and language therapist who can teach you how to breathe to manage it, in the meantime look up diaphragm breathing &amp; the stop cough/buteyko techniques.
Have u gone to an ENT? Pulmonologist?
[deleted]
You're spinning. When you are lost and unfocused - you need to return to your values to gain clarity. When you are dissatisfied with your life, it means you are not living a life in alignment with your values. What are your values? They are incredibly individualistic, not just "be a good person".

For example, I value choice. I want to make meaningful decisions without outside influence. That meant becoming financially independent - paying my own bills, it meant networking, it meant learning skills and doing things I don't particularly like, so that I get to make choices without outside influence about my career, about my home, about my health. It's that independence I value, and it means that sometimes I don't continue relationships if it means the other person has a career where mine would always be second, or where mine would have to take a hit so they could progress. That would mean making me more dependent and would lessen my ability to make significant choices.

I also value giving back, but in my twenties I was doing this by giving money at random times in the office, or volunteer at a company volunteer day. It's pretty trite, but the saying "be the change you want to see in the world" is true. I started volunteering on Saturday mornings, and I felt good about giving back in a more significant way. For me it's about pulling my own weight in the community, and being part of it.

There are a bunch of worksheets online that will help you clarify your values. Once you figure out what they are, you can use them to look at your life and figure out needs to change. For me, I figured out what my values were and then I structured my average week to make sure I as making progress on all of them. My job at the time sucked, so every day after work I was applying for something new. I was volunteering on Saturday mornings. I also built in a calendar of significant dates, (birthdays, anniversaries, holidays, graduations) and built in scheduled time to shop for gifts, to send cards because that was the person I wanted to be. 

Like you, I was really worried that I had wasted time, and measurable progress really eased that worry. I'm also prone to depression, and those miserable self reinforcing cycles depression can cause. I made little checklists for every day of the week, and little progress bars that I could fill in. To combat depression I also scheduled time to do my laundry, clean, shop for groceries, and meal prep. I built structure into my life that can support me when I go through a depressive patch. Self care for me is forcing myself to do the shit I really don't fucking want to do when going through a depressive patch so that it's a manageable and self limiting thing, rather than a major obstacle that means I have to rebuild my whole life over. Again. 

You also need some perspective. Your twenties are for screwing up. Really. No one gives a shit how long it took you to get a degree. Or all the times you fucked up. And let me tell you, if forty year old you could hear you right now, he would be giving you such shit for doubting his intelligence, ability, and drive. As you get older you build and build and build. There was no great road divided where you took the wrong path in your twenties and so from now on everything is awful and will always be awful. The real world is way to complex and messy for that. You don't only get one shot, you get multiple. And if you don't make it, that's fine. You get to try again, or figure out that you wanted to shoot at something else entirely. 

You also have to stop giving a shit about all the opportunities you missed or things you screwed up. For literally every person, every single person, their fuckups and missed opportunities will always outnumber their successes. From nothing less than the Lion King, "there is more to see than can ever be seen, more to do, than can ever be done". You have to stop caring about misses because it will drive you crazy, and care about what you are building right now.

TLDR: Live your life according to your values. Structure your week so that happens. Do the boring shitty stuff in a depressive funk so you don't make it worse. Stop caring about the past/misses. You get what you build, so build, build, build.
[deleted]
This was me.

I spent 10 yrs being depressed from the age of 22-32.


I fell behind. I never really dated or have a relationship. Gained weight. Never did anything with my career. I'll spare you the sob story but I spent 10 yrs escaping by being online and also binge watching movies and tv shows for hours every day.


It all changed when 2 years ago at the age of 33. I hit rock bottom. Tried to commit suicide. Strangely enough it scared me shitless. The feelings of just wanting to die and all I can think about was suicide scared the fuck outta me and it made me think I needed to change my life and get help.


I then decided to try really hard. Small steps. I did a career change. Went back to college. Went to culinary school and loved it. 


I had 2 days of classes per week so my first goal was small. It was to just not miss any classes for 3 months. 


My other small goals was trying to keep my home tidy. No matter how hard it was. I forced myself to do it. I told myself things like I am not allowed to eat or sleep or binge watch tv in order to force myself to tidy my home up.


It worked. Now 2 yrs later. I am actually working 50+ hours a week. My career has taken off. I completed college without missing 1 day of class and ontop of that I have found it easier now to clean my home even though I am working so much. I actually vacuumed my place yesterday morning before I went to work and I had a 11 hour work shift. 


I also lost alot of weight and feel happier.


I started over at the age of 33. I am now 35. I started off with little small steps and little small goals. As I said.. even something as small as tidying my room was a goal. 


If you want to change your life. You can too. Don't think about the big steps. Just think of small tiny things you can do every day and force yourself to do them. Over a few months. Those tiny things end up getting easier and you look back and you end up being proud of the small steps.
I was a raging drunk until age twenty five and finished community college with an associates at age 29.

Be easier on yourself , you - me and a bunch of folks in our generation are having a rough...well start and middle of it I guess? , you're not in a race friend.
My life story is more or less the same
I’m stoked to hear you’re now at a place where you have the mindset to put energy into making improvements...that’s no small thing.. I noticed you mention guitar, and games and things that used to make you happy.... I’m just speculating here... but you just walked through a chaotic season of life.. everything you think you know gets shaken in your 20’s.. for everyone... factor in familial hardships, chronic pain, and depression, and 10 years and well.... you have changed... and it’s perfectly fine to hang up the guitar for a few years...don’t allow the things that used to bring you joy trap you... they are only a small part of identity, and they change... I did nothing but music for 12 years... the last 3 were just empty... I had to allow myself to accept that my connection to music has changed.. I play less... I listen to completely different music than I did 12 years ago... and I’m ok with that... I enjoy what I had, and I enjoy what I still have... and some nights I still pick up the guitar and pluck a bit and smile... Your a different person now, and you need new things... I found that it was hard for me to carve out a time for music, but I could carve out 10 minute to play with my phone camera... after a year of that, I found that photography filled the gap that guitar couldn’t fill.... I guess I’m just taking a long ass time to say let go of what you know isn’t working... give yourself permission to set those things down and not guilt yourself over it... allow your self to be free to look for new interests... game development might not become your career, and had you found it 10 years ago you may have been better off, but regardless, you found it now, and it’s engaging, and challenging, and brings you joy.... as I’m sure you know, those things are harder to find the older we get...... keep at it, because it gives you something to hope for and contend with and grow in and learn about, and it brings you joy.... those are plenty good enough reasons. And by allowing yourself to progress, I hope your capacity to take on the mundane and stressful grows... all the best
Bro, I'm in a similar boat and I realized the other day that I simply live in the future too damn much. When I look back at my life 5 years ago, I realize life then was not half bad in hindsight, ya know. I was feeling miserable everyday, wanting a better job, wanting more free personal time, feeling worthless because I was always working while other ppl are out having fun and having relationship while I was working way too long hours for shit pay. I dwell on these shit everyday and put on a miserable face everyday. I probably had anxiety and depression issue but I was too scared to seek help.

Fast forward to today, I dare not say I'm successful/rich/respectable, in fact I'm far from it. However, I would kill to go back to 5 years ago and had a different attitude in life and stop worrying about everything and live in the present, and just appreciate the little things. 

I think it's good to make a to do list so you have a direction but do remember to live in the present from time to time. After all, the final goal post in life is death, it's the journey from one point to another that that makes life interesting, good or bad.

As a fellow guitar enthusiasts, I would say dont feel bad about not keeping up with the practice. When I was at school till university, I would practice 4 to 5 hours a day as I was fucking inspired by all my guitar heroes. But when I started my full time job, it really took the soul out of me, I barely touched my guitar, even when I have time I was not inspired to practice the guitar. I didnt even upload a single cover onto YouTube for the whole year.

Last year due to pandemic, I had more free time to myself and I decided I'm gonna start uploading more covers to YouTube and I actually hit 100 subs by the end of the year! It might be a laughable feat but as someone who is socially isolated this is kind of a proud feat for me.

So, if you really want to get back to guitar, doing YouTube covers would help. It sorta documents your journey and is able to push you to practice harder cos you don't want to suck in the video.

And bro, of course everything can be started earlier in life and be more perfect. I wished I started investing earlier, talked to girls earlier, going out on my own more earlier, work out earlier. But sometimes I realize that maybe this is all fate ya know, like when I was little, my father would force me to sleep earlier, but I would never listened. Now knowing it will fuck up my next day, I would do it within a heartbeat. 

We all live and learn my bro. Like Warren Buffet says, the best time to build a tree was 10 years ago, the 2nd best time is now.


My 2 cents. Hope it helps in some way.
Totally agree. Most of my friends are married and have fled the city. It's been pretty rough, particularly as I'm a very social person.
As a late 30's guy, it was all because of work.  I tried one of those 'Geek Meet-up' things when I first moved to Charlotte and it was just weird.  Also my wife knows of other late 30's/40ish people so she isometimes knows a guy that likes videogames and tries to 'set me up'.  

Obviously COVID changed all that.  I don't honestly think there's a proper way to meet people during this time frame.  I'm just hanging with the wife and playing on Steam with my established friends group
I just wanted to share, in case you were interested in seeing some previous discussion and ideas, this is a pretty common topic on the subreddit. You can [see earlier discussions by searching](https://www.reddit.com/r/OVER30REDDIT/search?q=friends&amp;restrict_sr=1). 

FWIW I agree - definitely nowhere near as automatic as when I was in K-12 or even in college.
For me it's just getting friendly with people at work (be careful though what you choose to say). I see a couple people from work every now and then (pre Covid) for drinks. 

But for the most part, aside from that I don't have any close friends.
At this age, it's all about colleagues and neighbors. I had great neighbor and colleague friends in NYC for years, and now have great neighbor and colleague friends in Seattle.
I am in my 30s. 

out of the last 10 yrs, strangely this year was where I made the most new friends. 


You see for the last 10 yrs I've been depressed and I was a reclouse. 


In 2019 I decided to change my life. I got sick and tired of being depressed.


I did a career change and go back to college at the age of 33. 


I started college (culinary school) in 2019 at the age of 33 and this yr has been my most social year I've had in the last 10 yrs!!


 I became friends with all my classmates. 
Even became friends with the teachers. 

Also became friends with the 60 yr old retiree. Haha. 


I regularly hang out with them for coffee and speak to alot of them several times a week now.


Since it's culinary school. we mostly talk about food related stuff and we are all obsessed with food/cooking etc. Some of them I share stupid funny food related memes with regularly.


it's a hobby related thing where I found something in common with everyone. 


Strangely been one of the best yrs socially of my life. This happened all during a pandemic. Haha
I play tennis and met some there. Try to attend some events you like maybe. Joining some kind of rec sports team was good because we see each other several times over the course of a season
It is so hard. I have made one friend in the past two years and she's so overworked and exhausted that we barely got to see each other even before the pandemic. If we didn't have texting we would never be able to communicate. I am so unbelievably grateful for her, she is my best friend and support. 

On the other hand, I have been continuously cutting out toxic people for the last three years.
I think there are a lot of lonely people. Everyone always says to just find people that have similar interests by joining some kind of group but that doesn't really work. Just get used to it.
As we get older it's not that we dont make friends but we dont have the same quality of friendships as when we were younger. To put it another way, you arent going to meet your bff after your 20s. Friendship at this age is more along the line of acquittances who share some things in common.
Covid has made things difficult but I haven't found it to be a problem at all. However, it takes effort whereas in the past thanks to school you were forced into close proximity to people. If you're not willing to put in the effort in an effective way, it ain't gonna magically happen anymore.
I'm in my 40s and I've lived all over, here's what I know:

1. Use Meetup dot com for like-minded social groups (we belong to childfree couples and I belong to a childfree women's group, and have made good friends through it).
2. Smaller towns and cities where people don't move away are the hardest to make friends in. All those people already have their friend group and they don't need more. It can take a REALLY LONG TIME to break into those groups.
3. Big cities are the best for making friends because so many people are in the same boat, many will be out looking for connection and friendship as much as everyone else.
4. Making new friends is like dating, there has to be effort on both sides to keep it going and growing. If your effort is wasted on one person, move on and try again until you find someone who feels the same way about the effort.
Workplace.  I realized when I finally got a job with people near my age. I spent my early 20 doing shitty jobs with 40yr olds. I struggled to have any small talk. 

I also struggle with this problem. But I made some improvements, I still don't have any real (local) friends. But I did get to safely socialize with strangers online. Among us is really popular game and I jump into the discord and play a few matches. And it's like going to hobby store and playing pick-up game with randos. 

It honestly felt good to talk to others and among us encourages socializing with others.
Doesn't get any easier
I agree, it becomes very difficult. I've found, for me personally, that I can find people that share similar interests, but tend to write you of for one or two you don't share with them. I'm into everything from hunting, fishing, working on cars, woodworking, welding, movies, music video games, camping, hiking, offroading, you name it, I probably enjoy it! But when I i meet some one who likes to say, fish and work on cars, they think its weird that I like video games, and tend to write me off.

I also find that, I am solid in my convictions when it comes to my morals and standards, and how people should be treated. So then I tend to distance myself from people who don't share those with me. It's a vicious cycle between the two. I am content in my life and the few people I do have in my circle, but sometimes I wish I had more, because it can get lonely at times, as we all live our own lives.

I wish I had some solid advice for you, but I don't. Just know your not alone in this predicament. I have happened to meet some great people online, through gaming and such, and recently had the opportunity to meet one in person, and it was awesome. So there's always that option here as well!
Thanks everyone for your advice. Xx
I have made plenty of friends. Just look for hobbies and things in common and you will find them.
I found as I got older, I stopped putting up with shit from people, and started filtering my friends. People grow and mature at different speeds; for example, one of my friends in his 20s still carried on like we did in high school. Another friend was always causing drama between other friends, and I got tired of the apologies and repeating nonsense. Then when I had kids, those people that were still out drinking every week, that didn't understand why I had to keep saying no. Then there's high maintenance people that if you don't talk to for a week, they get pissed off. 

Now I'm in my 40s, I have a smaller group of friends, some with kids, some without, but people that don't care if they don't see me for 6 months, aren't bothered by me having kids, and aren't causing drama in my life. It's just about finding friends that suit your lifestyle at the time, and not everyone will.
Look for the worst in people and youll find it.  

Confirmation bias is one of the harder biases to avoid.
I think it's of becoming more conscientious. In our 20s we all put up with 'friends' who are disgusting selfish people just because they are funny or have the same favorite bar or whatever. But there comes a point that you realize that being around them does not lead to a happy life, and supporting them means supporting someone who actively harms others, so you stop dealing with people like that.
With every passing year, my hatred only grows stronger :)
Naw, it do be like that
I just do not care about being liked anymore.
There is very much a danger that as you grow older, you become what is called a  "professional complainer".     

Very soon you will get very good at complaining -- like really good at it.  You will find yourself doing it all the time, like a addict needing to smoke a cigarette.  By age 43, it takes *conscious endurance* to avoid complaining about everything  all day.
We tend to see the real people around us it's true everything gets upside down
It sounds like you're getting to know yourself. Be you and don't apologise for it. I mean, try not to be an asshole.

I believe you shouldn't have to be in a "polite bubble" around your true friends. You should be able to let your guard down. If you don't feel comfortable doing that they probably really never were great friends. 

Start creating distance. 

Find friends you have real things in common with (other than just history).
This is a great question. I graduated from high school in 1990, and it doesn't cease to blow my mind that the distance from that year to today is greater than the distance from the Beatles' American invasion (1964) to that year.  The Beatles were OLDIES when I was growing up, but to me, 80s music is still very much relevant.   


I know it's subjective - that it feels that way because I lived through it - but there's more to it than that. When I was in high school, cable television was really starting to get established, with MTV and CNN still less than 10 years old and cable penetration in the low-60 percents. Many of the elements of modern society - especially the explosion of information and variety of content - started happening in the 1980s.  For that reason, the '90s feel modern to me while the 60s belong to an earlier era of American history.
Present day. Social attitudes changed more from 1960 to 1990. It was still illegal for mixed race couples to get married. By 1990 we had birth control and relationships were much the same.
I don’t know. 1960 was still deep in the 50s culturally and technologically in most places and in 90 you could potentially have a cell phone and a PC and a home gaming console. I didn’t have any of those things but I had a pager and had taken a computer class.
[deleted]
I don't remember 1960 but the biggest technological innovation for consumers in the 1960-90 period was probably the VCR (which did wonders for the mail order porn industry) and, for business, the fax machine. These can't compare to the internet or the smart phone. 

OTOH, I'm not sure with regard to public mores. 1960 was still very straight laced whereas by 1990 things like premarital sex, unmarried cohabitation and homosexuality were normalized in liberal parts of the US.
I vote for 1960. Technologically, it was basically the same, but with Cable TV and NES.
That image, oh myy. Is is just me or
The internet changed everything. 1990 has way more similarities to 1960. Another big change was Cash for Clunkers in 2009. The types of cars on the road in 1990 were very similar to the ones in 1960. Then there are the jokes about how every Seinfeld ep written today can be shortened to a few minutes because of the cell phone revolution. America looked a lot different from 1960-1990 than 1990 to today (what is called the "browning" of America by sociologists)-- 1990 everyday life in America was definitely more similar to 1960.
[deleted]
I was in the same boat and found satisfaction in being of service to others through volunteering. I help out at running races (I'm a runner myself) and once a week doing outreach for the homeless. It gives me something to think about other than myself and a way to connect with humanity.
&gt;Everything I've wanted to learn about, work towards or discover has been accomplished in my twenties.

Accomplishments will only get you so far in life.  It sounds to me like you've always sought reward via external factors (people, hobbies, holidays).  But the reality is that nothing is ever ultimately satisfying.  Through a lens of 'achievement=fulfilment', life *is* disappointing

The only thing you can really change that will give you some sense of peace in life is your own perception.  And that requires some difficult, uncomfortable introspection.

If you haven't already, I'd look in to meditation and/or therapy.
Hey try thinking of it like this;
In your thirties you are like 1/3 through your life. You made mistakes and learnt from them, you grew a whole lot and now you feel like you're already good enough at everything not to try because the outcome seems obvious. 
But if someone was like 1/3 of the way into a degree or a job or something that takes learning AND experience to be great at and they were walking around being like, I'm bored, I've done it all and I'm proficient, you'd be like; no motherfucker! Now is when you start to get really good and fine tune shit that you glossed over at the beginning. 
Getting good at life is learning to enjoy it. You're still learning, give yourself self time especially down time. 
We are all just trying our best to get good at this shit. 
Travel is really the only thing that doesn't bore me to be honest. Dating hasn't been a priority for me and I don't really make much of an effort anymore. I have few interests in life myself. 

I knew someone was going to say volunteering. I did that for years. I'm not into working for free during my free time. I give $$ to charity and give canned food and toys during the holidays. I know this is downvote worthy. 
My advice:  Go see a psychologist. Dabbling and giving up everything you try is a classic symptom of a slightly bent psyche.  Ditto with your relationship outcome, and your current relationship problems.  Frankly this is all looks lifted straight out of a psychology textbook 101.  Seek professional counseling, you clearly could use a bit of guidance right now, and have probably needed it for quite some time judging by the history you've allowed me to see.  

If you don't, this isn't going to go away on it's own, you'll just learn to live with it, which kind of sucks, and your jury-rigged coping mechanisms arent going to be pretty, or effective at solving your issue(s).
It seems like you did post this because you're looking for some ideas/feedback, so here are my four thoughts:

1) I'm 34, so in some ways, I can relate. The bars are less fun. Relationships can seem routine. You've been to every big city in a 500-mile radius. I understand how some things seem dull, but:

2) you are very lucky! you've been to exotic places, had the free time to explore hobbies, enjoy long, relaxing vacations from work. Sounds like you have a comfortable lifestyle. Maybe that doesn't help, but you are a fortunate person! This leads me to the next thought:

3)You could try volunteering your time with people who are less fortunate. It can be a good reminder of your excellent fortune and get you outside of your thoughts.

4) I personally have found that as some things have gotten more boring, other aspects of my life are way more interesting. I think that's because 27-33-ish is a time of transition from youth to serious adulthood. Partying might sound lame, but deeper things - like a long-term relationship, a long-term goal (I'm writing and illustrating my own children's book), building your own business - those seem like really exciting challenges. Maybe you could come up with an idea like that, one that takes months or years - and try pursuing it.

&amp;#x200B;
1. Buy motorcycle
2. Travel
Mid thirties existentialism is generally curable through having kids and shit.  Then you spend the next decade trying to find value in domesticity and going to bed early.  Only to be left with the same feeling you have now, but at least another decade is down and you fulfilled your "biological imperative" of breeding.  

Apparently after that you cease to care or something, I don't know.  I am just there now in my mid 40s, and  I felt very much as you do a decade ago.
If nothing catches your interest, and it has been that way for an extended period of time, I agree with the people who suggest you might be depressed. I've suffered from depression a few times that left me able to function, but without any real interest in life. Everything seemed boring, including things like watching movies, playing games, and reading books. Once it passed, I found I was again interested in learning new things, setting challenges for myself, taking pleasure in spending time with loved ones, and also enjoying just being alone with my thoughts.
On the other side to that I had kids in my early 20s, so every moment and penny has been devoted to them ( not that I'm complaining I love them) but part of me always felt like I've missed out on the travelling/hobbies/ exploring myself part of life....I always feel so boring when going on dates lol
Hey man, I literally could have wrote this myself.  I have been feeling this way for a couple years now and recently sought some help.  Counselling and meds may help a little with mood and well being but I cannot see how it will take away the boredom.  I really have nobody to talk to about this in my life because people have a hard time understanding it.  They often say "take up a new hobby".  Nothing excites me. 
&gt; Travel is no longer interesting enough for me. 

Sounds like you need to kick it up a notch and add physical challenge to your trips...long treks through mountains or jungle, maybe a long-distance bike tour. 
Sounds like you want a lofty interest, so it's probably not great advice but I started playing video games in my 30's after not really playing much in my teens or twenties. I'm not a big tv watcher so it's a nice alternative when Im at home. If you're into multiplayer games you can get a lot of milage out of them. Sounds like maybe you should join a meet up group and take up a hobby with people.

&amp;#x200B;

I think people with kids are so busy that when they do have time to themselves they just crash out and watch tv or read a book.

&amp;#x200B;
OP, have you tried surfing?
I don't think you mentioned learning a new language. Have you done that yet?
I resonate with what you’re saying. Long story short - check out Jordan Peterson. Thank me later.
take responsibility for something, responsibility creates meaning
I'm only 30 and bored as hell.  I've done the things so 🤷🏽‍♀️
So enjoy their music today as much as I did then
[The Bullet in the Head version](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZvTEtbnMmk#t=797) is mind-blowing (no pun intended). The audience didn't know how lucky they were to be there. Goose bumps!

(FYI: The songs are time-stamped in the video description.)
for a first concert, wow, they did amazing
My first gig was them a year later. First Non-US date. 
Love how the crowd grew.
Wow, it's amazing to see such a solid set on the first outing, and how little their music changed over time. That's very rare in the world of music. Also fun to watch the crowd gather over the course of the gig.
It’s hard to make new friends as an adult, especially if you have no children. After several years living overseas, I returned back to my home country (a different region to where we previously lived) with my partner. I have several friends in different countries but none locally. I go to the gym etc and I have people I’m friendly with etc but no actual friends.  All of my socialising is done with my partner.
It’s totally true. I’m in my 30’s and consider myself to be a level headed kind person. I go to the gym to and see others with friends at the gym. I’m right there with you. It can feel isolating at times. It was like one day I woke up and realized that while creating a great life for myself thst I no longer had friends, only work colleagues and acquaintances.
I have good friends but they all live far away. I'm actively trying to make more friends and have made a couple so far, but life always finds a way to drive us apart before we click.

I go to the gym and am a part of book clubs. I am pretty active in my community and I'm friendly with people, but I haven't been all that successful in the friend dept.

It takes a long time to form a good connection. A lot of ppl don't want to (or can't) put in the time.
I have exactly 3 friends. 1 is my sibling, 1 is my spouse, 1 is my best friend who I met when we were in our 20s. When I was younger, I always thought I was the type to make friends easily. But then I realized that if I didn’t make a move to be involved with them, they didn’t care if I was around or not. We had been “friends” for over a decade and they never invited me to anything, I stopped inviting myself and haven’t seen them except for funerals since 2012 or so. Instead I’ve come to realize that I’m more of an “acquired taste” as far as friends go, I’ve never been the type of girl with a group of best girl friends, or the one who everyone wants to like, I’ve never been invited places or included in our friend events, it’s the most lonely thing in my life but I’ve come to terms with it. I’m sure it’s me, I’m not stupid I know I’m the common denominator in the situation. But I don’t know how to change it. I’m nice, outgoing, kind, funny- but I have adhd and it’s hard to keep focused and quiet when I need to be, I’m sure I can be annoying and overbearing- who knows how people see us, I like myself either way.
I'm betting you are a guy.    


As others have said, it is hard to make new friends as an adult.  But I think this issue is worse for men because we have been programmed from early age to be "self reliant".  Making and keeping friends requires communication and initiation. Something most guys just don't fucking do.  If you read between the lines on a lot of the "yeah me too bud" posts, you will find the common denominator is lack of initiation and communication.   


As to making friends: the standard response is to find some form of social hobby. Gym is NOT a social hobby.  You are going to have to be the one to reach out to build a bridge most likely.  


To keep friends: communicate and don't assume a friendship will continue without work and initiation.   


Us guys need to be better about making friendships two way streets. I am the initiator 80+% of the time with the rest of my friends. I know it's not "well they don't actually like you" because they don't initiate with ANYONE. It's exhausting but if you want a social life it requires work just like any other relationship.
It’s time consuming to make new friends, but it’s worth the effort if you are feeling lonely. You have to go to a ton of meetups and hang out with a lot of hipsters, snobs, and competitive people before finding your weirdo and gaining their trust.
I have friends but they all have kids.  Luckily, I enjoy kids but I really become more of an auntie/babysitter when I hang out with them which is fine! But I rarely get to hang out with just my friends lol. 

All my childless friends live far away. 

I hang out with family a lot. 

Maybe join a sports team?
I think making really good friends after 30 is very difficult and not very common. But it’s not impossible — it just takes some effort. When you’re younger, you’re often put together with your peers for extended time (school, clubs, dances) and it’s easier to grow the experience with each other needed to connect. It’s not as easy to find those situations when you’re older but it’s possible — in sports leagues, at bars, meetup groups, classes, and so on. Putting yourself out there isn’t always fun, and it can be scary. But it’s often only scary because literally everyone thinks it is. Usually once someone breaks the ice, it’s very clear if people want to connect or not. And from there it’s just a matter of learning about each other, and eventually being vulnerable and learning to trust each other. Which isn’t easy, either, but it’s a lifelong struggle for some. Good luck!
I've struggled with this through my 30s after moving cross country to be closer to family, becoming a single parent and then COVID.  I've been the most successful by doing meetups and community groups where you are consistently together with people while doing a structured activity.  You build familiarity and connections with people over time and it's really hard.  I've had the best luck in a board game group with then introduced me to an escape room group.  That group of friends didn't last but it was a good confidence builder.  I have pretty bad anxiety so trying to be happy and approachable and put myself out there has been a bit terrifying.

If you are into fitness, I see [F3 groups](https://f3nation.com/) for men all over my area and know several men who have met good friends there (don't be put off by the website, it's not as wierdy christian as it looks).

As a single woman and a mom, I have been trying book clubs, fitness classes, looking for new meetups, trying to make connections with women in my new neighborhood, and I'm looking forward to when my kid starts sports or activities so I can meet other parents.  It's rough but you really have to go out and try to meet a lot of people and put yourself out there.  I'm not always doing things I love, but if making those connections is important to me, my therapist tells me I have to go where the people are.  Thank god COVID restrictions are easing up and there will be more in person events this summer.
Get into an activity that builds relationships. Cycling is a great one. Many bike shops host group rides and people just show up and ride together, it’s more interpersonal than the gym so it’s easier to connect with people and build friendships.
I feel this way. The only friend I am close to is a friend from grad school who lives in the same city as me. She is a doctor, so it's hard to meet up all the time but she makes time to meet at least once in a while.

Besides her, there are people here and there from childhood or wherever who I will talk to once in a while lol-like maybe once every few months to years.

The closest person I had my age in my twenties (my cousin) passed away after falling unexpectedly ill.

To be honest, this feels like the most difficult part of my 30s. I grew up in a vibrant, close knit community b/c my parents are immigrants. I didn't think I'd get old and feel like I have no sense of belonging but here we are.
I have people I know, but not really any friends.
I have friends because I live in the city I grew up in, and we talk regularly. I also have newish friends as a result of having kids - ie having kids the same age means we hang out more. Among that second group there are maybe two or three people I would have a beer with one on one, if convenient.

You are in a tough situation though. In your 30s people are starting to have complicated, demanding adult lives. A lot of them have partners and kids and jobs that demand a lot of their time, not to mention chores and life admin that drain energy. 

Because they have such limited time and energy, they are judicious with how they choose to spend it. Speaking personally if I was going to go out for a social night with one or more friends, would I seek out someone I don't know and put in the time and energy it takes to make a new friend? Or would I tap my existing circle of friends for what I know is a risk-free fun easygoing evening?

See what I mean? Making new friends takes time and energy, and at that age a lot of people tend to have less of both.
Over 30, no friends here aside of my beautiful wife who is the only friend I need, so I’m not exactly looking. She would like more friends, but we also have kids and so far most people we’ve interacted with who are potential friend candidates tend to be on different wavelengths. Maybe we’re too picky but it’s also hard to trust anyone.
Find a meetup group for something that you're interested in. I enjoy board game nights out at bars in my city.
I’ve come to this conclusion as well, I moved to a new city 3 1/2 yrs ago &amp; have struggled to make friends. The couple friends I do have have gotten into relationships and spend most their time with their partners. My boyfriend’s group of friends is the same way it seems like. I’m constantly suggesting things to do or inviting the few friends I have out to try &amp; maintain a social life, but people are busy. I never get invites back so feels like I’m spinning my wheels a lot.
I would say it's harder to make *close* friends. I have acquaintances and fair-weather friends out my ears, but deeper connections are more difficult.

When you're young, you're all going through the same gauntlet and you just naturally form close bonds with others. With adults, that process necessarily becomes awkwardly intentional.
I agree. It's hard. I lost contact with friends from childhood after moving, have contact with friends from college, but we live in different cities and don't get to see each other often. I've always connected easier with men, but this can be a gray area when meeting new people as an adult and can get complicated.
I have a few good friends, but they don't live in the same state as I do, anymore. I pretty much keep to myself these days, focus on my interests and try to chat with people online in the communities I'm a part of.

I've found out that most people who have large groups of friends, tend to keep to themselves and outsiders trying to "breach" the group, aren't all that welcome. I don't think you're doing anything wrong. I'm still unsure how to change things or accept that this is just how it is, but I'm attempting to make one friend at a time.
Mattresses don’t matter and chill on the drinking.  You can do this.  Age doesn’t matter either
Actually, you can and probably should tell someone at HR or your direct manager that you’re dealing with this. It’s OK to not be working at your peak in this situation.
I understand what you are going through. This is not a fail at all, happens a lot.

I wish you all the strength and perseverance to go through this. You will heal, life won't be the same again but you will heal.

Today I am sleeping on a small single size.
I’m 34 as well. 

You’re not alone, many people have found themselves in this same situation.

Someday you’re going to look back on this moment and see how incredibly strong you are.  

This too shall pass. 

Focus on your basic needs right now, eating, showering, sleeping.  You can and will be okay. 🤎 If you need to live together for a little while during this transition, I’d focus on just staying apart and civil.

And I would mention it to my coworkers, as awkward as it might be. Let the people in your life be there for you.  They can’t be there for you if you don’t let them in.  Let people know you’re unsure about your next move.  Some may offer advice, news about rentals or someone looking for a roommate.
You got this, it's NOT a fail! I think comedian Bill Burr has a bit about how it's better to sleep on an air mattress on your own than in a soft bed next to someone you resent. 

I've been there. I'm not saying it won't be hard, but it will be a time you look back on fondly someday. 

Also, screw any coworkers or ANYONE that doesn't have empathy for your situation. That speaks to their poor character and is not a reflection on you or making you a burden
Met the love of my life at 48 years old. Things can get better.
I'm 38 renting a room in a house. Where a family lives. I win.
Hey 33F I too got sad drunk and threw up tonight. It’s ok to feel what you feel. Sometimes you need to sulk it out. I do hope it turns around for you soon. *hugs* If you need to vent to someone, I’m available.
You have better days ahead. I slept on a mattress on the floor for months in the house with my ex while separating. Then I got a twin bed off FB marketplace to get the mattress off the floor. Then I moved out, bought a bigger mattress, then a bed to put it on, etc. You can do this. Just keep working incrementally in the direction you want to go. You won't even recognize yourself in a couple of years. Best wishes.
Do you have any friends or family you can stay with? I'm sure you have considered this but I think staying in the same building and not having others around you will make you feel very lonely. I'm really sorry to hear this is happening to you, good luck working through it.
Speaking as a 43yo who reinvented a slew of aspects of my life starting when I was 32-33… you’re gonna be fine. I’m sorry you’re hurting today, but I PROMISE YOU the world will still spin and one day you will look back on this as a growth moment.

Take care of yourself. Drinking less is a good start- I wish I had figured out reinventing that piece of me a decade earlier but it took me a while to learn. Anyway: ❤️
Who’s name is on the apartment lease?
You should let your office know assuming they are a decent company. If your name is on the lease and not his then legally the apartment is yours. You could see if the apartment management office will let you move to another apartment of the same or smaller size. Move your stuff to the new apartment.
You were engaged for 8 years with no wedding taking place and he's making you sleep on an air mattress while he keeps the bedroom? Sounds like the trash took itself out. You'll be fine. ♥️
Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must recognize that it is he who is asked. In a word, each man is questioned by life; and he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only respond by being responsible.  - Victor Frankl

Facing adversity is the fertile ground upon which we grow.  There is no right or wrong. There is only your truth and a never ending source of love that isn't made by the circumstances of mankind.

There is more to you than there appears to be.
I felt the same way for awhile. But then I reframed it: Twin sized bed leaves a lot of space in a typical bedroom. As a result, being single since just after the pandemic started, I moved my bookcase and workout stuff into the bedroom so my new cat can't claw them to pieces. It's just big enough to be comfortable to sleep &amp; read on, but small enough to allow for other uses in the room and/or make it easier to clean.

Re air mattress, I imagine that makes for a super fast and easy move out / set up in your future new place!
Drink a lot of water or you'll look like a dried out prune. Use moisturizer. Sunscreen when youre out in the sun. Eat a fuck ton of vegetables. Eat as healthy as possible. Learn new recipes. Run. Exercise. Call and text your friends more often. Get sleep. Manage your stress. Call your parents more (they're getting old). Invest in nicer furniture. If you don't have kids then develop a new hobby. Take that crazy vacation you always wanted. 

For most people, 30 is the last curtain call of their youth. You want to simultaneously take care of yourself in a physical/mental/emotional way because your time and energy will inevitably begin to decrease/decline. Fucking rock out your thirties!!!
Get your finances in order if you haven't started
There's good advice here, but they're all facets of a core concept that's very important.

You need to plan things for longer scales, because that time will be gone before you know it.

With that in mind, have a five-year plan - not like the ones you made when you were 18 or whatever, but if you have things that you want to do/accomplish, start trying to move towards them now. Do a little bit each day to help that goal along. In five years (which will be sooner than you think), you'll reap those benefits.

I'll be 35 in 2021 and while there are many good things that have happened to me, there aren't many things that I've objectively worked towards or tried to improve, and I regret that. It's already Christmas, this year is already finished, and before I know it I'll be 40. So for me, I want to fix some physical stuff (bad teeth, will take years to correct, now's a good time since masks and whatnot) and I'm working on acquiring a new language (Chinese, that'll also take years of daily practice). There are other good habits that I'd like to work on and things I'd like to accomplish, and over the next five years I plan to address them.

There's a Chinese saying (I think) that says: "The best time to plant a tree was 100 years ago. The second best time is now." As you get older, this becomes more and more true.

TL;DR: Don't wait to do big things. Put yourself in your own shoes five years from now, write down what you want that to look like, and then work on small things to get there, day by day. The years will pass before you know it either way.
If you don't read regularly, start. Find something you're interested in, it doesn't matter what it is. Get in the habit of keeping your mind active now and not just relaxing by watching TV and movies.
Drink water, seriously you can't drink alcohol as much as you used to, at least 1 alcohol for 1 water

Budget anyway that works for you, I love r/ynab

Stretch daily

Walk, run, hike, something

Find new hobbies since your current friends/hobbies are likely to reproduce/change/move/go away
be mindful of nose hairs gaining strength and going rogue. this is crucial.
You spend 30 to 60 paying for all the fun you had from 0 to 30.
Keeping a journal of you don't already.
Savings, commit and contribute to a 401k, run at least 3 miles a day as often as you can. 
Overall, show gratitude.
Exercise. Drink water. Sleep well. Good bed and good shoes.
Running or any cardio of choice. One hour EVERY DAY. Thank me in 30 years when you are 60 and can still move around and do stuff with ease. 

Practice gratitude. Think about what you are grateful for, often and intentionally.

Finally, take care of your finances. Only debt allowed is a 15 year mortgage. Invest 15% into Growth Mutual Funds. Go look up Dave Ramsey if you never heard of him.

30 years from now you will be a millionaire with the health to enjoy it.
I started in my early 20’s. I cannot stress this enough, A GOOD face and neck regimen!!!! (I’m 37, and I have zero wrinkles &lt;yet&gt;. I look 10-15 years younger than I should and I truly believe it was due to be starting a good quality morning and night beauty routine. 

Also, have all of your vitamin levels checked every couple of years. TAKE GOOD vitamins. They are NOT all created equal. Not even close.

Easy on the sugar, salt, carbs. You don’t have to go crazy, just be mindful.

Stand up taller, relax and set those shoulders and unclench your jaw. If your hands are a little clenched or tight, let them by your side and give them a little shakey shake. 

Deep breath in through your nose, and out your mouth. 
When you breathe out, breathe out 2 seconds longer than you breathed in through your nose.

Edit:
- Drink more water. No diet drinks. 
- Yes, you really should pee ONE last time. Safety first!
- Save. Save. Save. Even if it’s just $2 a week for now. Save it. Not for Christmas or anything like that, you need an emergency fund.
- Get life insurance. (It’s not expensive)
- Volunteer. Pick a place that speaks to you and pour your heart into it when you can. Such as: Animal shelter, Nursing home, ymca for youth.
I am 45 and my two pieces of advice are - don’t eat like a teenager and play a musical instrument.  You won’t regret either of those choices.
I don't think you're too old to learn either of those. My mom has learned a few languages in her 60s, enough to get by while visiting those countries at least.

My brother learned guitar as a teenager but has taught himself different instruments in his 40s. Of course, that's a bit easier with a basic grasp of general musical knowledge. But saxophone is a big difference from a guitar.

If you're gonna go down the instrument route, I'd suggest starting with piano. It'll help you get theory down more than any other instrument, plus you can pick up a cheap keyboard that'll be nicer than an equally priced guitar or wind instrument. Though, as a piano player, I may be biased.

For languages, check out the Duolingo app.

What about sports? I'm a fan of rock climbing, that can be picked up at any age. I have a lot of friends who play volleyball.

Woodworking is an idea. 

Homebrewing is a great hobby that pays for itself over time... at least, that's the lie that homebrewers tell themselves.
33 year old solo dog and cat owner here checking in. Nothing is out of reach to learn. Well maybe gymnastics. That's too crazy. But as far as you feeling like you wasted your life...NO WAY! Get that defeatest attitude a packin'. There's always time to learn new things. Hell, I'm doing more shit in my 30's than I did in my 20's. Granted the no kids, no partner, and good income help out a ton. But still...it is not too late. Things I have started doing since I left my twenties: 


Cycling - I left my twenties pudgy and just not all too feeling good about myself. So I bought a starter bike and the rest is history. I also parleyed that into mountain biking as well. 

Foreign Language - I always wanted to learn Japanese. So why not now? I bought some great online books and went from there. Two years later I can hold a conversation and can read a couple hundred kanji. 

Wine/Beer - I started hitting up wineries and breweries learning anything and everything I can about these alcohols. The stuff is so interesting. I am eyeballing an at home brew kit on Amazon. I just need to take the plunge. And I'm considering a small vineyard in my front yard. Why the hell not ya know? 

Musical instrument - I love Japanese anime and the soundtracks. The cello I have always been fond of. So I bought a decent starter instrument over the winter and have been teaching myself since. 

Animals - I love my pets. I would like some more. I live in the middle of nowhere and have caught the farm bug. Soon when it finally warms up, I'm gonna take the plunge and get some chickens, ducks, and geese. 

Car Repair - who needs a mechanic when there is YouTube? I learned so much and been able to change my oil, break pads, calipers, rotors, compressor, and A/C coolant. 

Home Improvement - again there's YouTube. I've built a deck, tiled my kitchen, laid hardwood, put up molding, plumber a new house bib, and added in electrical outlets behind my wall mounted TV's. Shit is easy af once you get it down, but it can be quite intimidating. I'm looking to build a detached guest house soon. I'm confident I can build most of it once the foundation is poured. 

Travel - nuff' said. Moreso internationally. 


There's always time to learn something new. Don't let age and society dictate how you feel about that. I'll admit at times I sometimes do feel "incomplete" as I am not married, don't live in the burbs, and have 2.2 kids running around. But that's just life. I feel forcing it and waiting for that to happen is a waste of time. Why wait? Start living and learning now.
[deleted]
Gardening has been really rewarding for me. There's a certain type of patience you need to develop before being successful at it. Gardening is the closest I come to "being zen" about anything.
Weight training! I just started, 40, and it’s great.
Not to be a dick, but do / learn whatever you want. There is no great magic answer to your question. Nobody can tell you what would be great for you... 
Whatever floats your boat. My husband was gifted a box of stained glass when his church got a new stained glass window and handed out the old glass to church members because they were actual Tiffany glass (don't ask). So instead of asking someone to make us something, we both took a class and have been making stained glass things for 20 years. It was just so much fun. You just never know till you try a thing!
Linear algebra
What do you find interesting and what is your general level of fitness? 
Try dog sports like Rally, nosework, and agility. 
I've been teaching myself a foreign language. I don't think you're too old for it as long as you have an interest in it. You may never get fluent but you can still learn enough to carry on conversations. 
I can recommend downloading the Duolingo-app for learning a language. It's easy enough and no big deal.
 
You can learn language and instruments, it just might be a little more difficult. I find that I have a lot of preconceptions and learned behaviors or attitudes that get in the way of me learning new things as fast as I once did. I can still learn them, just takes more effort and time. 

What about gardening? Growing things and keeping them alive is a great skill and you get to eat some of them too. I started gardening and want to learn to pickle and can vegetables. 

What about plastic models? I started to do model kits also. I have a ship that I need to put together and paint. But you can start out relatively cheap with cheaper models to practice on. If you like military history this can be a lot of fun. But there's other model types too like railroads, planes, action figures, etc.
I started learning Spanish this year and I am loving it so far.
Brazilian Jiu Jitsu -  it's not a cult. 

I started at 48.  
With anything, repetition is key. So music and languages aren't ruled out. More abstract things are tougher to learn. Things that require creative thinking may be harder as your fluid IQ drops with age. But exercise helps fight that.

Just pick something and do it 10 minutes a day, if you start liking it, do it for longer.

Guitar is a great start, just chords at first.
Dude, get into table tennis. It's really fun. While youre definitely too old to be the best of the nest, you getbpretty fucking good with some practice. Theres bars with tables or you can go to a club. Im really glad i picked it up. Also, its cheap.
Are you me? Lol
I felt the same way about my life when I was in my early 30s. I think the best thing you can do is to set one goal for yourself and focus on reaching that goal.

For example, do you want to move to your own place? You said your job pays well, so figure out a budget and a new place to live. You might need a roommate, but that can be good. A roommate will give you a chance to meet new people and experience a different way to relate to people.

I understand being stressed out about your brother, but unless your parents are already at death's door, there's no reason to worry about him now. Focus on your own bucket list. Is there a place you have always wanted to visit? Start saving and planning for a trip. 

Are you on a dating app?  It can be brutal, but if you focus on just meeting new people it can be a great way to get out of the house and meet new people. Don't go to first dates expecting to meet the love of your life, a reasonable goal is to have a fun time on the date. If it's not fun, leave.
I'd like to suggest that you're not responsible for your brother like that. He needs to know that when his parents pass, he'll have to take care of himself. This is not your burden to carry.

It also sounds like you may need therapy. The fact that both you and your brother are having such a hard time indicates that your upbringing may have been traumatic.
Hey! It's never too late to make friends. I have oddly made more good friends this decade than before.

It sounds like having romantic love is important to you. How are you putting yourself out there? Although dating apps are hard they can also be fun to go on lots of dates and meet new people. Sometimes it's a numbers game. But I met the love of my life on Hinge after a lot of trial and error! 

There's also a friends version of bumble which I have used before to try and meet friends only. And there is an app called meetup to find hobbies-related get togethers where you can meet new people too.

Anyway there's always options and it's important not to throw in the towel. Your mindset is everything. If you feel as if you have no one to talk to about these things, have you considered seeing a therapist to help you work through some of these regrets you have?
Doing everything right and still getting the sorry end of the stick.

I'm also trying to navigate where things went wrong, when trying to do everything I was "supposed" to.

The social aspect is have no solution for. I think some people are just naturally better at being social and in social situations than others. It's terrible to realize that in your 30's, I'll say. Can be changed, but not overnight. 

Note, you don't have to take care of your brother. If he's an adult, he needs to take care of himself.
I know this might sound hard to believe, but has the thought ever crossed your mind that **it's not you** ? Stay with me here -- maybe it's not you. Maybe it's your environment that's bringing you down. Get thee to a counselor or at the very least a life coach (not interested in a debate about their legitimacy) because it just sounds like you need a pep talk and a plan of action to bring you out of your funk. 

Listen to what your feelings are telling you -- you're bored and there's nothing for you here. Time for you to think about what you want out of life instead of waiting for someone to tell you what you want. Opportunity is when luck meets preparedness/planning.

Edit: When it comes to your brother, I want you to repeat these 3 words: "Not my problem". The more you insist on enabling your brother, the more he'll let you. Your brother is a sovereign adult, no one can force him to do anything, but no one is obligated to help him either. Let go and focus on you.
Dating apps are an okay way to meet people, but it helps to have your own social life rounded out and confidence in yourself before you start sorting the good partners from the bad there.  You might consider joining local social groups for physical activity, things where you can make sober friends and get physically and mentally fit at the same time. Martial arts are great for this, or body building, dancing, sports clubs, etc.
I’m in my early 40’s and have noticed the best looking and apparently happiest women my age and older are those who take physical fitness and emotional wellness seriously.
[deleted]
I’m glad you quit the toxic job. It’s not worth it.

So happy you got back into your music! 

What’s your favorite genre of music to play? 

In terms of a new job, is there anything you’re interested in?
Oof, I feel you friend. Also an older Millennial burned out with ~~love~~ life and wishing for old times. Life just gets tougher and tougher.
Yes! I regularly make an exasperated noise to my hubs followed by "life is so weeeird!" Whenever it gets... not easy. I hear you. You know what you want and are going for it. That's amazing. 


-staring down 38 on the horizon
Hello fellow guitarist, it's awesome that you're deciding to get lessons. Even with a lot of experience they can really help motivate you, or open you up to new possibilities or ideas. 

&amp;#x200B;

&gt;I’m an extreme introvert that’s trying to work a nerve to play music live in front of people.

I am heavily introverted myself, but I've made performing in front of people my happy place, although I still find I struggle a bit with interacting with people before and after I play.  If you don't mind a bit of advice on this, I highly suggest you search for jam sessions in your area. Lots of pubs and bars have them on a weekly basis. Start checking them out, but leave your guitar at home for the time being. Just have a beer and listen. Find the one that feels the most open and supporting of "new" players - by which I mean those without much stage experience - and learn a couple of the staple blues songs and ask to stand in for one of them. Pick something easy that you could play in your sleep as generally speaking we're anywhere from 10-30% better at home than we are on stage.  Don't worry about showing off, don't worry about mistakes, just have fun with it if you can. It's so much easier doing this than it is in front of family or friends. They're all strangers, and you'll never have to see or play in front of them again.   But honestly? Most of these places are super supportive. We want to see fellow musicians succeed and keep music and guitar alive. 

&amp;#x200B;

&gt;I’m sad that I don’t have friends to share the story with, to hear their stories with, to jam with.

This is a struggle we all face.  It's damned hard to find friends to share this stuff with. It's something I've always struggled with too.  I play in bands that I don't even like the genre of just to get out and play, especially when I like and get along with the people I'm playing with.  

If you ever decide to get into recording you can also collaborate with people on the internet. I think r/bedroombands is pretty much for that purpose, and it can be a ton of fun to do.
Open mic nights are very welcoming to everyone and a great place to meet people to play with or just enjoy and support each other.
I am 45, started running at 40 years old. I have joined two running clubs and started doing races this last year. It completely changed my life.
i hated the life that i created because it wasn't satisfying or fulfilling. i made great money but my hobbies were partying and dissociating after work, and hoping i'd die during sleep. 

i quit my career and job to find myself. turned out my issues were due to being raised in a very dysfunctional household. been working on my shit and no longer dissociate (as much) and don't want to die in my sleep. definite improvement. still haven't found my authentic self yet, but i gotta clean all the gunk out before i can clearly see myself.
&gt; So long as you carry the sources of your troubles about with you, those troubles will continue to harass and plague you wherever you wander on land or on sea. Does it surprise you that running away doesn’t do you any good? The things you’re running away from are with you all the time.

 - Seneca the Younger
I haven’t. From what I’ve heard, making a big move to just change your life doesn’t always pan out. I think people are happier when they move for a concrete reason, not just to extinguish existential angst or ennui. 

If there’s internal dissatisfaction, I think it will follow you. Do you do therapy? Have you tried volunteering? Finding some purpose will go a long way. Then you can move for that, instead of moving to find purpose. 

My inexperienced 2¢.
I'm somewhat in this stage. I moved abroad due to some other issues for an extended period during 2021 to be with parents. And now I'm back, to "home" and the wife, but it feels like my temporary life was so much more exciting, mostly because it was well, temporary. 

I'm starting to think I need to redefine what I want for myself. I don't see myself living the same life I was living in pre-pandemic, the home, wife and the same routine M-F work and occasional vacation. There's got to be more to life, and I'm doing all I can to figure out what. Including reevaluating my marriage, my work and my living quarters, even if that means uprooting myself from everything I had known as part of my identity just 18 months ago.
You're young enough to do it. You have no real responsibilities. If you've ever had a dream, no matter how silly it seems, I say go for it. Don't be an idiot about it, do your research, get a part time gig after work in the industry/world you want to jump in to, see how it works first and if you still want to do it, go for it. 

No regrets.
I'm sure what you're looking for is advise. But, at the least, someone out there feels the same. Really looking at my current career path and not sure if this is where I want to end up. Considering moving across the country just to have a fresh start.
Yes.  Repeatedly.  Moved from MN to FL, then FL to NC.  Granted some of that was based on other issues, but mostly it was just a desperate want of 'something different'

I will say, none of these things solved my inherent issue, but my life has improved thanks to every move.  I think a lot of people get complacent in life and just chill, which I can understand.  But man, I've met and done so many fun things because of each move.

I think I would work hard to figure out if it is actual boredom, or the realization of being in a dead end and wanting out.  Plus (I'm American so this may differ) this country has so much to offer that it seems wise to move around and see whats up
Life is a song. It begins, you dance, it ends ...silence. We are programmed to race to the end of the song when we should just dance and repeat the chorus.
I grew up in a small town, though it was in Indiana. I assume, based on your description, our towns were more alike than different.

I've realized a few things in life and I recognize these things to be true. While they are true I also realize that just telling them to someone is like telling a person without mechanical ability to just fix their broken car. I know how to fix the car because I've done it before, you have to do the work and fix the car yourself to understand how it works. 

So here are the things I know to be true:

One day we will all die and be forgotten. Don't seek death out but realize it is inevitable. Every man (and woman) who has ever lived is eventually forgotten. Some take longer to forget but billions have come before you and they lived the kind of mundane existence that most of us live, billions will come after you and live the way you have lived. You too will live and die and will be anonymous to history within 100-200 years of your death. Understand this, accept this, make peace with this and everything else gets easier.

Things, no matter what they are, will not make you happy. 

The only thing that means anything at all is who you leave behind. Your friends and family are your legacy. It's true they will live and die and be forgotten just like you, but the love you give them, the things you teach them, those non- tangible things are the only things that have any chance to be passed on for more than a few generations. The lessons you teach your kids have the chance to be the lessons they teach their children and your grandchildren will teach their children and so on. These are the only things truly worth pursuing concerning any kind of a legacy. Ideally 10 generations from now a descendant will teach their children something that I have taught my daughter and they will teach them that because it is true and that lesson has lasted the test of time. 

Superficial pursuits; hobbies, careers, leisure, etc., while superficial, are not worthless. We only get one chance at this thing and finding things you enjoy and enjoying them actively makes our time on Earth a lot more enjoyable. I enjoy the sport of American Football and writing. Nothing I write about football will be read by anyone other than family in the next couple of years at most, but I love doing it. I understand the ultimate meaninglessness of it but I use it as a welcome distraction from the day to day stresses of life.

Happiness is not a state that someone can reach. Happiness is fleeting. It is the same as sadness. You can not, or should not, live the majority of your life sad. Expecting to live most of your life "happy" will lead to disappointment. Contentment is a realistic goal and it is a much more nuanced state than happiness. I am happy with my daughter, I am happy with my fiance, I am happy with my new house, I am happy with my hobby. Those things are great but I am unhappy with my job, my ex-wife, my level of physical fitness. Those things suck but I am happy with the most important things which means I am content. I'm not walking around smiling like a loon all of the time, on cloud nine ignoring everything bad that I have to deal with. My good outweighs my bad and through that I am able to feel contentment.

Nothing is absolute. Not even the things I've told you.

And that's it. Those are the things I have come to know as true. You'll have to find your own truth and if you seek it out, I suspect you'll find it. I realize this is Reddit and everyone hates religion and I'm not going to tell you to become a member of some church but I will suggest to everyone asking these kinds of questions to read the book of Ecclesiastes. It was written 2000-2500 years ago and we're all sitting around wondering about everything the author writes about. It's seen as a depressing book but I did not take it that way. 

I saw it as a relief that nothing I do outside of my friends and family matters. When you realize that people have been feeling this way for thousands of years, it helps put everything in perspective. 

Hug and kiss your kids. Hug and kiss your wife. Everything else will be fine.
Totally agree 
We put "happiness" into the next job, relationship, move, etc but in reality we need make it now. How in ever day life that we can have that more. I like when we were young it was simple because we had to do things and did t have the luxury of online laziness.
Find something that makes you feel alive. For me it's doing a variety of sports so I moved from Florida to Tennessee where I can much more easily indulge in that. Yeah, when you have kids it's harder but it's still possible. The thing is, you have to put the work in to find it, it's not going to magically appear in your life from nowhere.

Just try anything that sounds interesting until something sticks. Maybe it's the trying itself that gives you meaning.
Hey u/Jet_Hardesty and anyone else reading this: 

It is okay to not have a "grand purpose" in life. It is okay to basically just find and enjoy cool hobbies and experiences until you die. It is okay to just do what makes you happy until you die as long as you're not harming anyone.
I also feel like there's supposed to be more to life. I think some people just have that introspective hole in their being and others don't. I used to read philosophy and drink about it, but it just made me miserable to be around, so I stopped and do my best to ignore it now. 

Fact is, there are no answers to those questions. You know that, deep down. You always have. 

Otherwise my life is very different from yours. 

I did really well in school and enjoyed it. No one likes hearing it, but the school system works, and works *well*, for some people. 

Never got married or had kids because I didn't want to though. I didn't like the goals society set for me, so i told society to screw itself. I do have a partner, we met through a friend. OLD was fun, but nothing serious ever came of it.

Still have a bunch of friends and we go outside all the time. Went hiking last week, still have blisters. Legit went to a roller rink a couple weeks ago (it's still cool, you can still go). 

Job's ok, I coordinate public events and services so that's likewise very people-y and in-person. I also volunteer a couple places. I like that I help people for a living. 

You're life doesn't have to be online or disconnected. You can choose to do other things besides have a white picket fence. Get involved in stuff your wife and kids are doing. Volunteer. Get angry about something tedious at a town hall meeting. Go roller skating again. Invite your old friends. Just go do something.
“If we find ourselves with a desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that we were made for another world.”
― C.S. Lewis
You’re on the precipice of a major realization.
Sounds like you need something that is just for you to do. Not for your job, your house, your family. Just you.
&gt;Why do I feel like there's supposed to be..... more?

Because there is!

&gt; So why then do I feel this dread about repeating this daily routine until I retire and die?

Because that sounds miserable!

Look, I’m turning 47 this week. I have a wife and kid that I love tremendously and my career is pretty great. But if all I had to look forward to was more of the same I would be pretty depressed.

Some people want to look backwards all the time. Some people want the comfort and stability of repetition. That “same day until you die” thing really is comforting for some. But not everyone’s happiness is the same.

I need new experiences and crave change. I enjoy striving for things. If I’m not working toward a new goal I feel like I’m wasting time. Fortunately so does my wife. And our son, rather than being a burden on that is actually a huge boon. The number of things we have added to our lives because of him is pretty amazing. From concerts to roller coasters to camping I’m doing things with him that I hadn’t done in decades. Showing him the world is showing it to me again.

Travel, museums, music, learning, new careers, new projects. 

I could absolutely accept my life as it is now and just ride it out - it would be a pretty good life - but if every day is going to look like the last, why bother? 

Some people will tell you happiness comes from within and that if you can’t be happy where you are that you won’t be happy somewhere else and that may be true in certain circumstances but it’s not *always* true. Yes, you need to recognize that you’re responsible for your own happiness but then you do need to do the work to achieve it and put yourself in the places where you can find it. And that may not be the same place as other people.

(For the record I fucking hated high school so anything is better than that.)
Not really because I was a shy nerd only child latchkey kid who got used to being by himself and also pretty socially awkward anyway. I'd have loved the internet growing up. I did spend a fair amount of time on BBSes back in the day especially once I had a computer in the house.
[Alan Watts - Live Fully Now](https://youtu.be/HdqVF7-8wng)

I feel this very much.

Mid thirties here and I’ve found that novelty amongst the boring monotony helps.

Maybe learn a new skill to challenge yourself, leave the kids with a family member and go on an adventure with your spouse (road trip, new city) or even sign your kids (if old enough) up for some activities that would bring them joy. I don’t have kids but I imagine it would be pretty neat to watch them grow by doing something they themselves are really excited about, however weird it may be. 

Shoot, even just a night out with friends can be rejuvenating.

Also, look at the small indulgences for some enjoyment. I am a big fan of creating a routine just to break it. Husband and I usually go for a walk in the evening but every now and then I can’t bare the thought of doing the same thing so we switch it up. We got hot chocolate and whip cream and when for a drive last week. It was amazing, lol

I’m planning for an early retirement (in mid forties) and that is a huge motivator. I love celebrating milestones each month on our journey. It makes the slog of the daily routine more purposeful. The monotony has meaning now. If you like that, check out r/financialindependence to learn more. This way, your routine is working towards a goal.
Every now and then I feel isolated but the internet rarely seems to help with that.  Most times when I post, I'm terrified.  

That's cool about SWFL btw, I lived in Naples for over a decade, curious whereabouts you are
Holy crap yes! I swear! I had to use SCISSORS yesterday...and I've got some pretty good grip strength.
They've also changed most of the recipes.
Definitely yes. I just assumed it was to keep the cereal fresher but we all know what assuming does. I use scissors because I like my cereal in the bag as opposed to all over the kitchen floor. I reclose it with a [binder clip](https://www.google.com/search?q=binder+clips+images&amp;rlz=1C1CHBF_enUS832US832&amp;oq=b&amp;aqs=chrome.0.69i59l2j69i60l4.3583j0j7&amp;sourceid=chrome&amp;ie=UTF-8). Whatever you generally use to close a chip bag.
Big cereal is in bed with big Tupperware. I've torn apart many many bags.
 [https://gizmodo.com/im-the-guy-who-made-snack-bags-so-impossible-to-open-5907087](https://gizmodo.com/im-the-guy-who-made-snack-bags-so-impossible-to-open-5907087) 

Maybe it was for this same reason?
Thank you! I thought I was going crazy, like I can't even open a damn bag anymore!
Oh thank goodness, I thought I'd just gotten too old to open them anymore!
I just can't believe that after all these years the bags are never resealable. I'd pay a little extra for a ziplok.
True, cereal bags are tougher. The amount of times I’ve used brute force and managed to tear the bag in half.... 🤣
I've found it's either harder or drastically easier to open, depends on the brand.
I wouldn't know, I haven't had cereal in ages.
Remember when some cereals had those thick, dense foil type bags?  Opening those was like peeling the plastic off electronics.
No. 
It lasted longer in Canada but still failed in the end...

Google says:

&gt;Although it was a popular menu item in Canada, the preparation time was about 11 minutes—which was way too long for us. Every McDonald's has a busy kitchen and the pizza slowed down our game. And since speed of service is a top priority and expected by our customers, we thought it best to remove this menu item. For now, our pizzas will have to remain a tasty bit of history.
I don't remember it being worth it... 
I was always into the Pizza Pockets from Jack in the Box. http://www.retrojunk.com/commercial/show/24001/jackinthebox-pizza-pockets
I loved this, but I was also like seven years old. I'm not confident it would be the same.
I remember this but I never had it
I just want transforming toys. 
I miss the chicken fajitas. Also Wendy's Chicken Caesar Pitas.  
Make a pilgrimage to Spencer, WV. They'll hook you up.
There are two locations still serving pizza, in WV and OH. 
Fuck a McPizza, where my McStuffins at? Your choice of pepperoni and cheese, Philly cheese steak or teriyaki chicken in a hollowed out baguette.
I don't even remember that. I can't imagine it being very good though.
Do we really need McDonald's marketing on this sub? It's fucking everywhere on Reddit now
[deleted]
I’ll be there in early September! My 30’s have been my favorite so far and I have high hopes for the next decade
40 is still young today! Happy birthday!
I'm 44 and feel 34, but with the experience I didn't have at 34.  You'll feel right at home.


On a side note, is anyone here subscribed to a good over 40 sub? I was subscribed to one, but all they do is submit selfies.  Like, what the hell? I want discussions, not instagram pics.


That's what I like about this sub.   Posts like OP's, in which we can share and chat.
I think you are looking at it exactly how you ought to. Onward and upward, just more carefully so!
Exactly one month to go. Mixed feelings for sure.
it *is* nice
What’s up SweetPea?
I feel like isolation is one of the big problems with our society in this age. It's hard to really JOIN with people, and given how "You are either with me or against me" many people are, it's getting worse.  If you spend enough time online, you are convinced there's no one really like you, and that no one would want to spend time with a person like you. 

Which is funny, because going out in public often shows things to be the opposite.
Totally. Being social creatures is so weird. Talking and relating doesn’t seem like a direct source to our survival and yet it can feel like a spiritual sustenance. It’s such a rare find, when someone first of all wants to talk and listen, has time to, and can actually understand/empathize with what’s being shared.
If only it were easy to find that.
42 here and realise the anxiety is likely a combination of undiagnosed ADHD and blocked out childhood trauma. Yay therapy!
Definitely. I am 34 now. I started a 12 step recovery program at 26 ish, anxiety was all over the place. Found Jesus at 32 and my anxiety and depression almost disappeared overnight. Got a new job at 33 and the residual anxiety and depression are virtually gone. I still struggle with "flare ups" but my perspective and spiritual well being are both strong, so I deal with it very differently now than I ever had before.
Yup, can totally relate, especially once I started on anti-depressants + saved up a good enough nest egg.
Completely relate. I am still in process of becoming the fully-expressed version of myself, and I'm 43. I was a HUGE mess in my 30s I think. Little kids, light alcoholism (just garden-variety American use levels, no major tragedies/ incidents but nothing good either), a marriage that somehow survived that and is still going but at the time was... tense, corporate job that's not hugely stressful and pays OK but also completely unfulfilling and burned me out hard enough that I lost that gig, just on and on. 

BUT: I quit drinking the Christmas before turning 40 and that fixed so many little things for me, and the job thing is still there but it's what I'm used to and is tolerable (like most corporate folks its a money not love thing). I did fix my marriage though, and the kids are bigger and I fixed those relationships before they were done growing up, too. So hopefully they remember that instead of dad being a grump just ALL the time. (Still some, but not ALL.)

Part of this stage of growing up is realizing that it's all... OK. Or it's gonna get there. You're just some dude, doing your thing in the world, whatever that is. Try to take care of yourself and your people, and if that's THE ONLY THING you do, you're still doing a lot.
Got an ADD/depression diagnosis after almost dying from self medication with booze.  I'm still wound pretty tight, but working on it.
I think I'm worse now (40s) than ever in my life! I've lost so much confidence as time goes on. Where is the confidence surge people talk about??
My anxiety hasn't lessened, it's just shifted around to other things.
I’m 43. It’s good. Mostly. I have enough physical mojo to still be working towards better shape (you’ll be dating again at some point- get to the gym!), finances are ok, finally, and the rest of it will work out. Family is good for me at the moment but that just happens to not be your deal …yet.

Three, four years ago we were trapped in an eternal-renovation money pit, I was still drinking (***quit, if you haven’t- it’s amazing how much better you’ll feel…), and I was in a job that was slowly killing me with stress, frustration, and no-path-forward-ness. That was me at 38, 39,  40.

Stuff turns around. 40’s just a number (really, it is), and please don’t feel bad about it. Do AS MUCH self work as you can in this season of your life, though. Therapy, exercise, journaling, pick back up that creative outlet, hell- move across country if you feel like it. Focus on yourself for a while and get reacquainted with your wants/needs, and come out strong at 41-42. You’ve probably got 50yrs left on this rock- do em up good. 

Pulling for you. Happy to chat however you want.
"Comparison is the thief of joy". Instead of thinking of things you don't have, consider what you do have.

You have:

1. A clean slate to find someone who is over the moon for you.

2. No kids or marital baggage that has a physical form -- you are free!

3. A steady job that is comfortable and satisfies your financial needs.

4. The opportunity to learn more about what *you* want to do (whether that's learning more about your job, learning about the world, learning about yourself, etc. The point is, when you stop learning, you start dying).

5. The chance to sell your house and buy something that you don't have to compromise on.

6. Reply to this comment with your own. :)

*Should* is a swear word when it comes to personal growth. It says something about our expectations of others and ourselves. It can be useful, but also a little damaging if you dwell on it. We've all been there, especially with a birthday on the horizon. 

If you look for the light, you can often find it. If you search for darkness, that's all you'll ever see. 

40 is the new 30, my friend. Go out there and kick some ass.
I’m going to hit that milestone in a couple of months, and I literally have an almost visceral reaction to the thought. If I could spend that 24 hours sleeping, I would. My life is nowhere where it should be at this point and I’m ashamed of that.
40 in 4 days.  I feel you more than I thought I would.  Will echo others here that you should think about and be thankful for what you do have.  That will get you everywhere
I’m 38.5 but feeling this already. No kids, never been married, haven’t been in a relationship for years. But I make decent money, am 5 years sober, have lost a bunch of weight and am working on losing more, and working on learning to code. It feels like a door is closing in terms of ever having children but also feels like I have real chances to have new opportunities and find joy in a lot of things, even if I never get into a relationship again or have a big house or whatever. 
Im trying to focus on what I do have in other words, and also where the opportunities are for me to improve I guess. But, you’re not alone. 40 is a big one
Yeah, I hear you. When I turned 40 in 2018, I was depressed as hell because I was nowhere near where I thought I should be - still never married or ever been in a serious relationship, living in a shitty tiny apartment, barely surviving. Comparing myself to my parents, they were many years into their 2nd marriages, were homeowners, had an adult offspring (me), and were well along in their careers at 40. My mom booked a Hawaii trip with me, and while it was a good time, it was overshadowed with melancholy and I felt like a charity case because she knew I had no one else to spend my birthday with, let alone a milestone birthday.

At 44, I sorta have my shit a little bit more together, but I'm still no less single. I started working out earlier this year though, and that is helping my mental state a bit.
Barely making it through is still making it. Some people don’t get 40 years and you aren’t guaranteed another 40 or even another day. I think this is the perfect time for a fresh start. Figure out what you love and do it, even if it’s scary. If you don’t know what you love, try something new.
I’m right there with you on this. Turn 40 in Jan, next year I’m getting divorced, the wife is likely going to take our child with her and moving two states away. I work for a company I hate primarily because I’m lagging behind peers in my profession in terms of experience and pay. Very little of my life is what I want or need. Feels like almost every day is just an exercise in getting walked over by other people.
40 is just a number. Your situation is an opportunity for new beginnings. Mourn your relationship for what you were hoping it would be, then look for what you need and want spiritually and physically.
Start looking at new hobbies, sell the house if it will make you happy. What career are you looking for?
Mourn your loss and do things for your happiness.
I'm curious to know what your life looks like to someone from the outside looking in.  What do they have to say about what you've accomplished by age 40?  Is there anyone in your life, whose opinion you trust, that could give you perspective on it?
so you are single, own a house, make enough money at your job and are fixing it yourself?

thats a pretty good claim to fame, start there
I can't believe that there are no comments here:  but I will share this with you:  YOU ARE A SHIP.  Ships are big and dirty and the sea is weird and has tides and shit.  You just need to focus on one small thing:  like eating breakfast.  That's a good thing.  It's not about "turning the ship".  I promise.  It's just about nudging the ship in the right direction.  And then you need to keep forcing the ship to turn in the direction you want to head.
I worked in food service until I was 32.  I ragequit one day and started my etsy/ebay career the next day.  It took me 4 years to work it up to full-time income (I got another part-time job in retail during that period).  I'm 39 now and I've been a full-time small business owner working for myself for 3 years now.

I'm some sort of neuro-diverse (autism, adhd, or both maybe--I don't see the point in spending money and drama to find out) so figuring out a non-standard way to make money was extremely freeing. I don't like people or noise, and I get bored easily, so I like that I can work at my own pace in my own home, and I can switch up what I do.  If I'm bored I can find a new product, or sign up to do a craft show or other event.

It's not perfect tho, just better.  I'm not a great housekeeper, I have a hard time making phone calls and running errands other than the post office.  Sometimes I wish I had friends (I am married tho--that was another thing that took a lot of effort to figure out.)

BUT I definitely have the confidence to do other things now.  I didn't learn how to drive until I was 36, for example, but dammit, I figured it out.  I thought my next big adventure was going to be buying some property just for me to play with (I live in a condo with my husband), but the market isn't in my favor right now, so I'm looking elsewhere for that next big thing.

It's all about pushing thru your fears and taking calculated risks.  Sometimes I want to do a thing, but it's hard, so I end up crying all over the place before or after, but I do it anyway, and it usually works out for the best.
I think the word IMAGE is the problem here. Why care what others think? 

Im now 34, work remotely from home, live alone with my ginger kitty, don't have any friends locally, (my friends are all abroad and we just talk on the phone sometimes), and I'm too busy and too old to just "meet people", most of whom live here only transiently anyway. I don't feel like putting energy and time into fleeting relationships. But I earn decent money, have plans for my future and my family's future and I'm constantly working towards it, and and actively involved in helping stray animals. 

To the outside, I may seem like a recluse loser cat lady with no social life. 

But on the inside, I'm fully content. I don't care what people think of me, I'm happy. 

Compare this to where I was when I was 28: depressed and crying all the time, feeling lonely because I was single and "unlovable", I couldn't even love myself. My apartment was a mess, which was a mirror of my mental state. 

Now, my apartment is almost always clean, I sweep everyday, I even started slathering lotions (something which I've never done aside from on my hands), and despite my busy schedule, I still have time for a 20-min home workout and cook multiple times a week. 

All because I don't waste energy on IMAGE. The right people will like you for you. Those who care about how your life looks on the outside, are not worth your time and worthy of being cut off. Trust me. Quality over quantity, if you want a better mental state.
Lifting heavy things has helped me so much. Discipline will work much better than hoping for  motivation or a quick fix.
I was lucky to find a path doing something I love, way back in my 20s, and I'm still doing it 40 years on.

But this seems to be somewhat uncommon.  Quite a few friends and family members are in your situation.

As I get older and look back, I am really starting to believe that so many things we think of as psychological or political, are actually spiritual issues.  We've all been taught to think of spirituality as bunkum and superstition. But I've come to believe that we're here to work out spiritual issues - and as we do, the material aspects of life work themselves automatically.
I may not have an objective answer, and In review I’m not really answering the question your asking, so potentially worth skipping lol, but One thing I can report is adjusting my perceptions and expectations of life, or rather, working to dump the experience of expectations in general has produced much more peace and much less judgment than my 20s (so I guess only keep reading if those are of value)

I think I’m poorly communicating a perceived judgment of yourself and I mean to say I relate to that and it’s stressful. in my experience, dropping those expectations, rather than trying to "acheive" them, lead to peace. That not saying I don’t work on myself, mostly just that I keep my head in the process not the results. I try my best exercising and if I’m still not quite healthy then It is what it is, right now I’m just focusing on the process.

Again, Not certain it translates 1:1 to everyone or you op, but I can at least report that peace through acceptance has helped my 30s be much more loving, and able to receive love than my 20s. I hope you are able to experience peace with any method you employ. Best of luck op
What are your hobbies? What brings you joy? What makes you happy? 

We don't have to have a purpose in life, you don't have to have a path, or a direction, or a goal at all. You are allowed to just live and to be. 

I also have ADHD, diagnosed just a couple years ago, and I'm 37F. I've never had career goals, or many goals in life tbh, except to be happy. And I want to be a mom but that's not really a goal so much as something I want. But anyway, a few years ago I realised all my friends were toxic and the city I was living in wasn't serving me anymore, I wasn't getting anything out of it. I was happier to stay in my own small neighbourhood, which was quickly becoming too big and busy for me. 

So I cut ties with all the toxic people and moved to a new, smaller city. My sister lives here, so I already knew the place and liked the vibe and also had a friend in my sister. But my point is, I completely changed my life because my life I was living wasn't really doing much for me anymore. Who knows what my path ahead is, but I know every day I feel happier because I have more things that bring me joy: access to nature, a community I'm very slowly integrating into, smaller but more meaningful connections, some time for my hobbies, less pressure. 

I don't know if this was helpful at all. But on the hygiene front, I used to be really terrible about taking care of my teeth and then I just started doing it. This may not work for you, but I made a firm rule with myself that if I *thought* about brushing my teeth, I had to do it. Some days I didn't think about it and just went to bed without doing it, but slowly I started thinking about it more and when I would start having the argument with myself about doing them, I would say 'now you're thinking about it, you have to.' and did it. I also do other things while brushing teeth, like turn off the lights around my apartment and get other bed things ready. Or in the morning I do the getting ready for work things. With ADHD we have to sort of trick ourselves into some of these routine things, so for me doing the task while doing other tasks was the trick, as well as putting it into a routine. 

I would start small on that front! And also seek out more resources for executive dysfunction. The hygiene would be my priority if I was in your shoes, and the rest of it don't sweat so much because you'll be happier without the pressure, and you are allowed to be happy. 

Sorry this got so long LOL What I'm trying to say is, just every day do what brings you joy. Maybe one day you want to read a book in your free time, maybe you just want to do nothing, maybe you want to go for a walk. You don't have to stress about it building up to something, you're allowed to just be alive and do what makes you happy.
It has been a long process to find my way in life. I was hoping that, someday, I would receive the clarity, the behavior, and everything else that an adult is "supposed" to have.  I realized that I am trying to recover from YEARS of abuse and undiagnosed mental health problems. You just can't undo it in just one year, it takes time. Some steps are small (brushing teeth at least twice a day, for example), and others are bigger (changing job). But I already know that life will be a constant struggle, there is always something. After accepting that I made a little peace with my mind. and things became a little easier.

There isn't a formula, each person will have a different strategy, and different needs. 

Be gentler with yourself, if you are too hard on yourself, you are only going to reinforce bad behavior. Try to establish small goals and practice discipline. It is like a muscle, it is very hard at the beginning but eventually gets "less hard".
When I was your age I was going through the worst break-up of my life, wound up homeless for two years, lost all my friends, and did significant damage to my career.

That was 16 years ago. Now, I have a wife and an amazing 9 year old kid and my career is going great. So yes, you have plenty of time to find your path. Don’t get me wrong - a lot of stuff is still a struggle and no matter how well I do, I still always feel behind. But that’s just my anxiety talking. In truth I have a pretty sweet life. 

Unless you’re hit by a bus, you have plenty of time. It probably won’t come in the form of a miracle breakthrough or jackpot moment, where everything changes overnight. But if you just keep putting one foot in front of the other, one step at a time, every day? Eventually you’ll wind up somewhere else.

As far as goals go, I find a lot of people that I know who “don’t have goals” actually *would* have goals but they are for things - be a writer, have a career in music, retire early and move to Mexico and live on the Beach, etc - they believe to be out of their reach. They shoot those goals down for themselves because they seem silly or impossible. 

But IMO it is better to have lofty goals than no goals at all. If a goal like “I want to be a regional manager for my local super market chain”. doesn’t excite you, then maybe think about what would. And if you spend your whole life pursuing an exciting goal and never quite get there you’ll at least live a life of purpose and passion.
I'm 37. Hard work in therapy and changing things about myself I never realized were there to be problems; replacing those with what a "wiser" person would do (and I'm still not at all the improvements or fully functioning the way I'd like to because this has been hard work). I had to find the right therapist and get past the bad experiences with previous health care. I had to face the fact that I actually hated almost every hour of the work I'd been doing for 15 years even though it had been interesting and varied -- I was always justifying it to myself. I separated from hurtful friends and family and business contacts. I looked for people who have better boundaries with me. 

I am using courage I didn't know I had to approach more and more things the way I always felt like I was the person to be like that and  couldn't pull it together or figure out how to just be different in a way that would feel more me and more reliable, and I have to give myself lots of breaks (literal down time and emotional/forgiveness) rather than getting down on myself for everything I can't do. I found that Wellbutrin with 1-2 days/week off is what works for my ADHD and avoiding as much destabilizing people and situations as possible. The types of "routines" that I have been working on did take a long time to set in and replace the non-routine routines of having no plan at all or planning to wing it unhealthfully and self-abusively. I still fall into not organizing, prioritizing and directing myself the best, but I expect that and am not self-shaming or using high anxiety to fuel my actions. Instead some of my breaks are little walks to re-focus.

Yes, you can do it if you are willing to not really reimagine your life to see what really feels right, but be open to seeing yourself for what you are really doing and how you can change those things for what you actually want, or find what you really want for yourself. When I think about all the "self-improvement" I was doing in my 20s, I feel a bit robbed: I was following popular advice (that was useful!) that ultimately only tweaked my behaviors without letting me see myself more clearly. I say therapy because you get to be in a room or video call with someone and really hear yourself talk about yourself and your problems, your opinions, and go-to solutions for the first time in a completely accepting environment where you can yourself be that independent onlooker with a different perspective and start to try out some adjustments with someone who will cheer for you and help you with skills you might be missing. If you've already tried therapy, try someone else. Keep trying. Most people are not your kind of person and you deserve to find your kind of person to work with you.
Something is holding you back , most likely your thoughts and fear, that's what happens to me sometimes. Fond something you enjoy , that makes you happy. Figure out how to make money from it if possible but most people are not finding there purpose , most people are just work sleep eat watch tell lie vision until old age. Stay positive and love yourself
Hi, I just stumbled across this sub and what you wrote exactly describes me. I’m commenting to hopefully get some ideas as well because it’s quite depressing to feel so lost in life at my age and I don’t know anyone irl who’s experiencing something similar
I feel this very intensely. I am 35 and haven’t had a steady job for over six years. I have no idea what I’m doing with my life.
Look up some of Jordan Peterson's videos about motivation and cleaning your room.

Life changing perspective!
How to manage multiple retirement accounts from previous jobs. 

Sources: Maybe /r/PersonalFinance 

I had to figure it out on my own.
* Basic maintenance on your home and vehicle if you have one.
* How to sew a basic stitch for repairing things.
* How to manage personal finances
* Learn about nutrition, various diet types, exercise, and the more in-depth effects each have on your body. Really learning more about these things make you more determined to imrpove on them.
* Basic first aid
* Emergency preparedness relative to your area - Learn what to do in any situation from a nuclear bomb going off, to a flood, tornado, etc, whatever is possible for your area. Be the person who has their shit together when shit hits the fan.
* A second language if you don't have one already - great way to keep your brain from turning to cement and has myriad social benefits
* How to cook 10 decently healthy and inexpensive meals. Means you've got a list you can cycle through rather than relying on takeaways.
* A creative hobby. We all consume so much nowadays, that spending time creating something has a magical feeling. Try learning an instrument, or something like photography which is extremely rewarding.

Most of this can be learned online easily. Since I've hit 30, I've made myself more determined to learn more about the world and fill in so many gaps in my knowledge that I've previously lived with - things like climate science, politics, world history, etc. Make a poster with each thing written on it, and every time you spend an hour on each thing, you can "level up" that skill on your poster. Helps you keep track too.

Also, check out Udemy. They have courses for absolutely everything. Search and sort by popularity/reviews. Though ignore the costs - every few days they do a sale where everything is like 10 bucks, so keep an eye out for that instead.
As a single guy I can say that having an apartment that's fully furnished and decorated is a game changer. I don't mean random flags and christmas lights either; but plants, rugs, framed art and mirrors etc. During lockdown I was surprised how much furnishing my place made me feel better and more at home.

The only good thing about Facebook still is their group pages. There's plenty of local groups on Facebook dedicated to giving away items for free. Just search your neighborhood and "free box" or "free items" and you can find surprisingly good things. I got two really good couches for myself plus some lamps and rugs from it. All gently used and like new, or easily repaired
How to budget: https://www.youneedabudget.com
A few that haven't been mentioned (or only hinted at so far)

*  How to relax.    Get a good hobby.  Get two.  Have "you" time and do what you need to survive, even if that means shutting down the phone for a weekend
*  DIY everything.  Keep money around in case your DIY fix fails, but find time every now and then to pick up life skills, whether you learn through books, through a trusted friend, or from mucking around until it works
*  Personal health and hygiene.  I'd hope you have the basics down, but it's time to pick up a book or read some articles on how to stay healthy.  It's only gonna get harder as you get older
*  Career and Life Planning.   Talk to your friends.  Network with work cohorts.  You don't have to figure out everything you want to do, but do write down a few goals you want to pursue in your life and find ways to make progress towards those goals every month or so


Good luck!  You're never behind or ahead.  You're exactly where you need to be to take the next step
Male here. I'd say one is how to wear a properly fitting suit, or clothes in general. That off-the-rack shit is no good when you're a grownup. 

There are several resources online that will tailor your stuff to order. MTailor is a good, but pricey, choice.
Diet. Exercise. Sleep. Water. Invest. Sex. No marriage. No kids. Rinse. Repeat.
Coke Zero shortage. The horror
Fiber one, prunes, and ovaltine are nowhere to be found either.  Something is going down...  my knee is acting up in a way it only did one other time, right before the final episode of Matlock.  Stay alert, friends.
My grocery store carries a generic version called 'Nutty Nuggets'.
People eat grape nuts?
What about basic four? Loved that shit.
Thank god they still have shredded wheat.
When you castrate that many grapes, how would one expect the species to survive?
How does the fiber compare to bran with raisins or... erm... fiber one?  heh
If your stores still sell Tab 12 packs, buy them ASAP. They're discontinued. Some people are reselling them online for a lot of money.
They're no where to be found in the Minneapolis area either.
In the DC area I was able to find Grape Nuts (in two different sizes) and Grace Nuts Flakes. I stocked up for winter
I just received the two boxes of Grape Nuts I ordered from Amazon a few weeks ago.  They are four pounds each.  I already dug in and they are as nutty and crunchy as ever.
[deleted]
Floss your teeth. Brushing is not the same. My gums have worn low and now are super sensitive if I want anything that's not room temperature.  Floss at night before brushing and tey to at least one other time during the say after a meal. The water pik flossers are great.
Bidet attachment for toilet saves an insane amount of toilet paper
After you brush your teeth, you are supposed to spit, but not rinse with water.

I rinsed with water for 33 years before I learned that.
Nose hair scissors are cool and good
Those rotary hair trimmers are for ears AND noses...because some time between 30 and 40, you need to start trimming both...
Shaving cream is supposed to sit on for 2 minutes.  I use to apply cream and shave right away.  Now, I apply the cream, do other stuff (brush teeth and comb hair), and then shave.  Huge difference.  The hair is so much softer and easier to shave and my skin is less irritated.
Trimming your pit hair make deodorant work better.
  
Washing your eyelids helps prevent styes.
  
Always shit before the shower if you don't have a bidet. The fats that help the poop slide out don't wipe clean with tp alone, and sweat with make you funky by the end of the day, even if it's just a little funk.
  
Excess sugar causes acne.
  
Floss your toes with your socks after the shower to prevent athletes foot (at home--wear sandals in the gym locker room).  
  
Staying hydrated + tongue scrapers = 100x more effective against bad breath than just brushing.  
  
Plucking nose hairs or using a clipper-style trimmer can cause those inflamed follicles that make your nose hurt for days.  
  
Dirty pillowcases can cause face/ neck acne.
  
Pee after sex, always (to avoid bladder/ UT infections).
I'm older so remember Carter-- he was a better president in terms of his goals, but ineffective due to both circumstances (the economy) and his administration's poor relationship with Congress.

But yeah, you're right: it's pretty damned sad to think the Obama administration is the best we can do for America. I remember talking with friends during the '88 election and someone asking "What if we elect a Democrat and we still don't like them?" I've seen that twice now, and would hate to see it happen a third time. 

At some point in my life I'd really like the chance to vote *for* the candidate I want rather than just voting *against* some monster put up by the right wing.
[deleted]
What about Carter? I was a bit too young to remember his presidency. 
Man do I hear you on all of this.  
I really had no problem with Clinton outside of DOMA. And Obama's sins, for me, are with the NSA -but generally I found both of them did good for the economy and jobs, good for social issues and good with foreign policy. Certainly better than any of the Republicans.

I just worry that if we see a Trump presidency we're going to have the civil war too many have threatened over the years and none of that good will endure. 
I'm over 40, and you could call me a "secular conservative libertarian" and I have yet to see a good national leader.

I've got no one to defend free markets, a rational national defense policy, privacy, reproductive rights, free speech, and a deep and wide separation of church and state. I can't see a difference in Republicans and Democrats except for superficialities like rhetoric and the temporary beneficiaries of their social policies -- fundamentally, they both want more power; their surface level differences are mostly irrelevant.

And you know what? I think America has done really well for itself without a leader ... in fact, we've done well despite *poor, corrupt, and criminal leadership*.

We really don't need those clowns. It's all just a big country club for the well-connected, anyway. Fuck 'em -- find a new way to get what you want, outside their broken system.
Did you ever vote for Nader?  'Cause then at least you can say you tried.  Personally I've never voted for a winner -- because I don't vote for Republicans.  So I didn't vote for Obama.  Or Clinton.
[deleted]
Try taking all the adverbs out of your life.  It will help remove the negativity.
Sadly you've peaked, it's only downhill from here, whichever of them wins :P  Clinton did a *LOT* of damage to the country and set up the housing bubble bursting, but he had so much charisma it's impossible to make anything stick to him.
Yeah, I hear that...

[realizes this is a post from 6+ years ago]

***Fuck...***
I get that your point is that the meme is over 20 years old, but I'm more struck by the stupidity of this particular application. I mean... there's nothing to deal with. Why not a shirt that says "I sit on chairs. Deal with it!" 

Odd.
nice find. don't think i have anything except yearbooks left from back in the day...
Save up and move out. Also, send this post to your Dad. Be honest with your parents, tell them you expect them to help bring you up and improve your life not bring you down and make your life more difficult. Good luck.
Stop playing the victim. Wake up and remember who the fuck you are. When they die. Tell your brother to get a job. Start living to put yourself first. It's interesting how people's attitudes change towards to you when you stop taking shit from them
You definitely aren't the boss of your own life right now. These are all grown adults you're dealing with, don't feel like they shouldn't have to do anything you should have to do. That thing about supporting your brother, he's an adult! Why should it fall on you to support him, if he never has to take responsibility, then be ready to take care of him for the rest of your life or at least until it goes too far where you just have a blowout and never talk to each other again, he and you are better off if he has to face the consequences at this age instead of when he is 40+.

If my Dad acted that way, he wouldn't be in my life, and maybe that's the wake up call your dad needs, people don't change when their circumstances stay the same, so again, it's better to correct this whole family relationship sooner than later, i understand this is much easier said than done though.

My advice would be get yourself in a position where you are reliant on yourself and nobody else from your family, again, easier said than done, but that should be the goal.
r/cptsd
&gt;He may cut me off entirely. 

The downsides to this are?

&gt;&gt;would have to deal with a psychopath as a father in law

Hopefully not as you will have cut him off before then!

&gt;Like there’s this one person there and she’ll ask you to do something and it’s like no big deal really, but once you do it it sort snowballs into more. Like why couldn’t you ask me for everything at the beginning?

I'm going to guess it's because you keep saying "Okay". You need to be firm. They ask you to do something then do it. They ask you to add on another detail? "I don't have time for that right now. Next time tell me exactly what you need help on right at the beginning." End the conversation.

Your dad is a controlling abusive narcissist. He might not physically abuse you guys but the emotional abuse is damaging. Your brother is a golden child who can do no wrong. You don't have that luxury. Your mother has an awful marriage with him by your account. She has enabled this behaviour as she is also a victim of his abuse. You grew up, and still live in, a toxic environment. It sounds like it impacts on how you deal with other people considering issues you have saying no to colleagues asking you to do work for them. And on top of all of that you don't have a support structure (friends) to help you through this. This is a lot for one person to go through on their own. 

I get it. My family went through a toxic period when I was growing up. I wasn't allowed to socialise outside of school. When I reached adulthood there was a lot of confusion because there was a lot of growing up I didn't do because of my home environment. I didn't recognise what a healthy relationship looked like and had a string of abusive partners. I got into therapy which helped me recognise patterns in my behaviour. How I couldn't set up boundaries because of guilt. How I would stretch myself thin to do things for other people etc etc. I'm not much older than you (34) and I'm happy. I'm still a bit behind in some ways and there are things I've never/barely experienced that my peers all seem to have. And although this is a bit of an oxymoron I also grew up quite quickly in many ways. I carried around a lot of burden and grew accustomed to it. I was depressed and stressed at 11. 

The helping parents with tech stuff is something that those of us with parents all do. Just usually they are gracious and polite and thankful. Regardless it is always irritating but the gratitude and love is worth it. Also there are plenty of times help would go the other way too. If they are rude and not thankful you say no. 

What are the barriers to you moving out? You have a postgraduate degree right? And are earning right now? Are there any cultural or religious reasons stopping you? Being on your own gives you emotional space and time to understand the sort of person you are. Therapy did absolute wonders for me. I'm sorry if it hurts to read this but your father sounds horrible and your mother enabled this. Now you are also enabling him by staying with him. You have to leave and then you can figure out if you want to go no or low contact. While you are on reddit check out r/raisedbynarcissists. Look at the other subs they reference and see what looks familiar. Your life doesn't have to be like this.
Fuck their expectations, you don't owe them anything. Your family is beyond toxic.

  


Save up, move out, live your own life! You deserve it! You owe it to yourself!!
Moving out would definitely be my first step. You said you have a job working from home, that implies it's maybe a decent white-collar job and since you've been living at home all this time, you might already have the finances to move out. I'd do that ASAP. Even if it's just an apartment in the same city, it's a good step.

If your work permits it, a place in an entirely new city might be even better. It'll put some physical distance between you too, to prevent you from moving out and getting caught up in the same drama. Your family probably won't just pop by unannounced if you live far enough away.

You're 30. You're an adult. Your parents should have no say in how you want to live your life anymore. I love my parents and still see them when I can, but they're not really involved with any of my life decisions and haven't been since I left home when I was 18.

Also, you are not responsible for your brother or your father or anyone else. You are responsible for you. You don't owe them anything and you don't need to worry about who will take care of them. That's up to them. If you're not there, they'll figure out what to do without you. As long as they don't have to do anything on their own, they won't.

You can help them if you really want and it makes you feel better, but there's no obligation, and you shouldn't put their needs before your own. Live the life **you** want to live.

As long as you can support yourself, I see no reason to remain at home in your situation. It's toxic and it's damaging to your mental health and your ability to create a life for yourself. It also sounds like it's probably not helping
“Does anyone feel like their life isn’t theirs?”  The name for what you are experiencing is coercive control.  Your dad also seems depressed.

There really is no reason to stay.  If you set yourself some boundaries you will be able to interact with your parents as adults.  If not you will continue to feel this way.
I can't even begin to explain how close to home this hits.
I’ll be 34 in a few months. My life advice from this past year is it’s ok to tell your family no. It’s not a monetary issue with me either, but my sister has been especially emotionally draining this year and my Aunt finally made me realize that even if it pisses my sister off, I have every right to say no and stick  with it. I’ve also learned in the last year that I need to be more vocal wanting/needing alone time and to stop committing full weekends to my family when they only drain me.
Don’t sacrifice what you want to try and please someone else, and DO NOT SETTLE for someone who doesn’t deserve you. Trust your instincts on that last one especially. If you feel like it’s not right, don’t wait to see what imaginative ways someone can disappoint you, just get out and continue working on your own path. The sooner you do, the sooner you’ll meet the right people.

Also do everything in your power to acknowledge your weaknesses AND your strengths, so that you can encourage and treat yourself, because you deserve it. Be honest about who you are and for your own future and happiness, don’t shy away from the hard work of working through your issues. You will pay yourself massive dividends in the long run, and you won’t be one of those people who walks around in their emotional underwear because they never had the courage to call themselves up to a higher standard.
Should have spent the money on a real carpenter.
[removed]
33.. that was 2011.  My advice would be save as much as possible over the next 2 years and buy the house while it's 100k cheaper that it was when you bought in 2019!
Take advantage of the opportunities to improve yourself and your life as they present themselves. Putting it off because the opportunity will still be there later and you just don't feel like taking it on right now is just a cowardly way of saying no to the opportunity. I have wasted a lot of time that I could have used to do things that would have made my life better for relatively minimal cost compared to what I could have gained. Shit, that hurt to write.
Make sure you work on your health. Healthy eating, working out or being active. It doesn't get easier to get in shape and any extra weight starts to get to you earlier.
1.) Quit drinking and smoking. (The damage catches up to you eventually, not matter how tough you feel at 33.)

2.) Get ergonomic. (Oh the pinched nerves and other problems I could have avoided...)
Am 33, goals this year have been be ontop of finances, save more, work towards being debt free and maintaining it, work hard, be more conscious of living healthy, stretch 3+ times a week, workout more, eat less sugar, more veg and whole foods, (basically our bodies aren't what they were in our 20s time to take better care of them) eat out less/cook more to save $. Be picky about how you spend your free time and don't be afraid to say no to ppl. Know when you need to recharge. In dating remember your worth and be on the lookout for red flags or abusive/manipulative or controlling behaviour.
To pull my head out of my ass and admit my son had autism. He was 2 when I was 33 and I was in denial that he speech delays where the root of all the problems we were having with him. It didn't help that my pediatrician was pretty dismissive when I brought it up at his 2 year check up. It wasn't until he was 3 and we had a new pediatrician that we really started getting him the help he needed. 

He is now almost 9 and we still struggles with his language skills. He is a walking dictionary, and the best speller in his grade, but still struggles with expressing how he feels, answering simple W questions, or using the correct pronouns.

My advice to anyone is, if you suspect your child may be having any developmental issues get them checked out immediately, by professional in the field, not just your pediatrician.
33... I was recovering from major surgery that year. And avoiding the surgery that I still needed. It was a blur of pain and I don't really remember it. Or really any of my early 30's. Which is kind of funny, because someone looking at me now would never guess.

Advice? Keep fucking going. Do anything you have to do to stay alive.
When I was 33 I was in entering my 10th year of teaching and coaching. Making next to nothing but didn't know it, and had a young daughter. Had an oppurtunity to go coach football at a sec school and turned it down. Shortsitedness and stuck with being comfortable for my family. Wrong move, still regret it to this day, and probably still messes with me now that i'm entering my 30th year. I will always wonder what could have  been or not been. My advice is take chances and have zero regrets. Don't be afraid to pack up and move, damn the torpedoes. Doesn't matter anyway in the end.
Leave work at 8 hours, not a minute longer

Take all the money you saved for a car and put it into an index fund instead on Christmas Day.

Don’t run in old running shoes!! Paying for that right now.

Take your damn vitamins.

33 was only a year ago for me :)
I'm 33 now but I hoped somebody told me this a few years earlier: stop adding so much negativity into your life by social media and news. The world moves on without you and its ok to not know about major events until it becomes a topic of discussion.

I've ditched a few accounts and on the ones I still use (Reddit and Twitter) I overhauled the people I follow or the subreddits I'm subscribed to. I also changed a lot of subscriptions on youtube to not focus on news but rather on science, tech and funny videos. Its cheesy to subscribe to wholesome subreddits and skip out on /r/news or /r/wtf because it can be addictive to view but its all so negative and I found that now I'm not arguing as much with strangers on topics I will most likely not convince them on anyways. And getting more positive or interesting topics to view/read about made me a lot more positive. I also pushed my parents to change up their routines and set up a reddit account for them to view more funny and positive things. And it improved their moods too.

Currently media is heavily focussed on bringing you the absolute worst from around the world because it gives them a lot of clicks and response, but in reality when you take a step back and see whats actually being reported, is not all that bad. Sure there's political stuff thats important, but we get too much news from far away that in reality doesn't really change much or affect a lot of people. There's national news over here about people being lethally hit by cars when in reality this has been going on for years and just not blown out of proportion. We also get more news from Asia and wherever which frankly I stopped caring about. I now let other people care about it and hope that the locals will spark change because forcing it to come will make things worse anyways. Afrika isn't doing that bad and the local economy is doing fine. Stop pretending the world is going to end and take a step back to see whats a negative influence and take steps to change it. My parents used to watch a lot of news but now rather read a book, play mobile games, look at funny memes on reddit and whatnot. And it seems that the mood here has improved greatly.

So instead of a few negative ones, I'm currently enjoying:

* /r/AnimalsBeingBros/
* /r/aww/
* /r/badUIbattles/
* /r/blackmagicfuckery/
* /r/brushybrushy/
* /r/Dogberg/
* /r/EarthPorn/
* /r/happycryingdads/
* /r/HappyWoofGifs/
* /r/holdmybeer/
* /r/holdmycosmo/
* /r/holdmyredbull/
* /r/HumansBeingBros/
* /r/MadeMeSmile/
* /r/maybemaybemaybe/
* /r/nextfuckinglevel/
* /r/Notakeonlythrow/
* /r/OfficeSpeak/
* /r/OSHA/
* /r/PartyParrot/
* /r/Perfectfit/
* /r/ProgrammerHumor/
* /r/rarepuppers/
* /r/sportsarefun/
* /r/SweatyPalms/
* /r/techsupportmacgyver/
* /r/WatchDogsWoofInside/
* /r/wholesomememes/
* /r/YEET/
* /r/Zoomies/
I'd tell myself to buy Disney Vacation Club (DVC) because it gets so much more expensive.
Don't stop going to the Gym.
I was right at the beginning of a long, downward spiral that I am just starting to climb out of.

"Please calm down. Nobody hates you but you. Forgive yourself. Nobody else is perfect, either. Celebrate your little victories because they matter. Stick to what works. Genug already with the cupcakes."
If you’re not interested or comfortable with something you’re under no obligation to be “open minded” about it. Don’t let people talk you into things your don’t want to do and establish clear firm boundaries. If you let people get you into stuff you don’t want to get into it established the precedent that no doesn’t really mean no. No means no means no and I’d rather be seen as stubborn and make my own mistakes than do something I didn’t want to do in the first place and have it not work out.
I move a lot, and as I go to a new place, I find that the people already there just have full lives, without much room for a new friend and the time commitment that implies.  They've filled up their available space, while I'm sitting there with TONS of available room on my calendar, twiddling my thumbs.  

Yeah, it's frustrating.
This sums it up for me:

&gt; Manipulators, drama queens, egomaniacs: a lot of them just no longer make the cut.
Especially in NY- but in general I've found it almost impossible to make new friends past 30 :/
Sadly this article only state the obvious, offering no solutions. :( 
Yeah, pretty much.  People I come into contact with are work (small, small company so not many and mostly older) and my daughter's friend's parents, and that's just awkward.
/r/louie 
I'm currently 44. About a year and a half ago, I'd had it with my current career (video production). It's a great industry, lots of fun, and pretty good pay if you can thrive in it, but I wasn't thriving. As a freelancer, so much of the actual work is stuff I really don't like (self-promotion, sales, running a business, etc), rather than doing the work I do actually like: writing/shooting/editing. So I starting looking for staff positions for video production, and frankly the pay was pretty mediocre for someone 20 years into their career. And during my job search, I noticed that entry-level software engineer jobs were paid *significantly* more than any video/production jobs I was finding. So I went down the "learn to code" rabbit hole.

It was going really well there for a long time. I was learning tons, doing a bit of freelance work as a software engineer, the free coding bootcamp I was in was awesome, with a really supportive community, and I was close to starting the job hunt in earnest.

Then late last summer, my heart basically gave out. I had major heart failure and the symptoms hit me all at once. My ejection fraction (the amount of blood your heart pumps on each beat) was under 20%; healthy is 65%. So I had to hit pause on everything; I had no energy and strength to be on a video/film set (I honestly could barely even lift my tripod without getting winded), and with such poor circulation and health, I could maaaaybe concentrate on work for a couple hours a day. It was really shitty.

Fast forward to January this year, and I had open heart surgery to replace my aortic valve, and my health has dramatically improved. My EF is up to 55%! I still have to deal with the major physical trauma of open heart surgery, and I still have a month of cardiac rehab to go, but I feel the best I have in almost a year.

So yeah... I was already in the middle of an on-purpose starting over then got hit with my major health crisis, forcing me into a big pause on everything. I had fully planned to have a new full-time job by now, but I'm feeling positive and hopeful for the future again.
"None of us really changes over time. We only become more fully what we are."
-the vampire Lestat (Anne Rice)

7 years ago I had a near death experience as a result of being a functioning alcoholic forever.  I was starting a family and had a new business at the time so my recovery period included my wedding where I was 60 lbs underweight, and the birth of my first child.  It turns out the alcohol was masking some serious mental health issues.  Needless to say it's been a bumpy 7 years.  At 40, I break down and cry more than I ever have in my life.  

However, there's been a lot of progress along the way.  Everyone's journey is different, but the most important philosophical changes for me were delving into "values based living" and reading man's search for meaning by Victor Frankel.
All that sounds like a lot to handle.  Fill your time with meaningful things and not just ruminating.  It can be a long and difficult process.  Kind of like turning a battleship around you are going to turn your life around.  What can make it much longer and more difficult is not self-reflecting correctly or completely. 

The most telling thing you've experienced is the breakup.  What made your partner not see a good future together?  The answer to that question is likely to be deeply personal.  Most of the time the factors that lead to the breakup are just not discussed at the end of a relationship.  It is basically a time to stop communicating.  So if the answer to the question isn't obvious or known then time to reflect on past events.  Since you had a 7 year long relationship this might not be easy to remember back far.  Journalling helps the most in this process.

I would suggest to start self-reflecting now while the memories are still fresh in your mind.  It's not worth it to hesitate or to put this off for when you feel like it.
Sorry you're going through all this. I know that feeling all too well. I guess it hits everyone differently but for me it was like as if the things that made up my identity unravelled and I had to figure out who I am again. 

About two years ago, my dad died of a very aggresive cancer (he was gone within six weeks of diagnosis, it was hard to say the least). At the same time, I was made redundant from a job I loved and based much of my sense of accomplishment on - after nine years with the employer. I actually got my severance payment on the day of my dad's funeral.

I was 36, no partner or anyone to lean on. Family (mum and sister) traumatised by dad dying, so I was taking care of all the practicalities. Was just coming out of 1,5 years working from home, so my social life was poor and I was pretty burnt out. It felt so isolating.

Basically, the usual cliches all ring true in my experience. Life just goes relentlessly on and, with time, you will slowly build a new life. In the beginning, it's really important to grieve your loss and rest (grief is exhausting!). Once you feel better, focusing on my health helped. I'm convinced these life ruptures are good opportunities to re-evaluate your life. With time, you'll be able to draw strength from the experience. I still get anxious about many things but these days I tend to remind myself I've lived through my nightmares and still got through it so whatever I'm afraid of probably won't be that bad, haha. It works!
she 'blindsided' you by saying 't just didn't work out' followed by you saying 'she didn't challenge me to be the best version of myself' LOL. So its her fault you were not the best version of yourself, it was her responsibility to babysit you into that? blindsided my arse, given the entitlement in that part of your post i would place my bets that it was a long time coming. in saying all that, i am really sorry about your cat. losing a pet is terrible and you did a sweet and kind thing selling your car to try to help.
Yeah, l was 40 and had to start over from zero, right before Covid hit. I had been kicked out from my home from one day to the next by my then boyfriend of five years and lost everything, social circle, everything that l owned and which l had paid for, family pictures, pictures of my kid, l lost *everything*. 

What had l done, you ask, to warrant such treatment, what was my horrendous crime or betrayal? All l did was talk to a member of the opposite sex and that irked my ex. He had become extremely jealous and a few months before he'd told me that he wanted a daily report with summaries of all the conversations l'd had throughout the day at work, even customers from my retail job. 

So from one day to the next, l was homeless, with nothing. I had spent the majority of my money to pay for stuff that he took from me. I wonder if he had a brain hemorrhage since his change was fairly abrupt, and l couldn't recognize the man l'd been with for five years. Still, there were red flags. 

At least l got away from him before he killed me.
I feel ya.  It took me forever to find people that just wanted to play video games and watch movies and what not.  Even then, eventually life catches up and that's few and far between.

The old bright days of ride or die friendships with gaming and music and movies is kinda gone my friend.  I've kept in contact with all my close gamer friends from back in the day but hanging out in discord doesn't quite feel the same.
44 here, nothings changed since I was 16.
That sounds nice! I'd love to have friends like that as well. All my friends are either busy with their gaggle of kids or so obsessed with video games that it's near impossible to get them to do anything else.


What's your all time fave movie?
What part of the world are you in? Different cities have different cultures for these sorts of things. I remember in my early 30s before doing the kids thing, there were a lot of options. Most of them involved drinking and that eventually clashed with other goals, but for a few years I had a lot of great conversations at bars and poker tables. Made some good friends until the eventual kids and COVID and moving away things happened. 
Your post got me all nostalgic about those kinds of friends and reminded me it’s important to remember that life is always changing in phases.
I hope you have a good time!

My favorite bands right now:
Jinjer, best metal band ever, so much talent and feeling lyrics
and Kesha’s last album was emotionally brutal.

I haven’t gamed in years, but I’m thinking about buying a 4090 rtx card for some machine learning.
I do those things with my SO. I think many do. Could be an option?
&gt; My main problem, is the community I am in currently, seems to be concentrated around two groups. Families my age with no interest in "hanging Out", or older folks 65+ who are sweet and kind, but can't offer me anything in terms of true friendship.
&gt;
&gt; I have been using several websites to find activities and things to do in my area, but they all seem to revolve around, meeting up with older women to go to a baseball game, or going to a business lunch

wow, sounds surprisingly similar to my town/city. everyone is either a retiree or already tied up in career/relationship and has no interest in expanding their social circle. and all those wonderful meetup.com groups are basically just retiree meetups or business people shit or like women's only meetups. 

As far as I can tell, the only solutions to these problems is to go where the actual (young) population is, which is large cities.
I wonder if our parents felt the same way!
At least tetris and pac-man are in there. Just take what you can get and reminisce on the good ole 1900's man.
If you want a gaming subreddit for older gaming, /r/patientgamers is a smaller more relaxed/casual subreddit in my experience, where people generally are more interestedin older games.

BTW, to answer thet question, I recently played most of Rage Of Mage 2, from 1999. I wish I could play Chaos Overlords, but it seems like it cannot work on modern windows. And I'm not sure I wish it enough to start figuring out emulators.
This site is infested with teens.
Probably nethack for me. It came on a CD I got for Windows 95 as a kid that had a catalog of games on it.

Still play it occasionally. I've never won.
I’m still down for a rousing game of kick the can and anyone who isn’t can get the hell off my lawn.
On a similar note I keep seeing posts along the lines of "help me identify this show I watched as a kid" and it turns out to be something from around 2011.
Haha, I work with teens. This is my everyday. They remind me every day that I, in my truly ancient 35-year-old state, am rapidly approaching death. Any breath could very well be my last... from a 15yo's perspective. I also recently grabbed a YA book about a teenage son dealing with his father's PTSD *from the Iraq War.*

... I recently messed around with Jurassic Park on SNES and perfected Yoshi's Island. My partner is playing through the old Ogre Battle games and I am probably going to play through the Castlevania series soon. 

I am also a huge fan of Marble Madness. 

... but I actually enjoy the retro game scene so I'd be a bit of an exception.
Maybe it's changed since you posted, but I'm seeing lots of stuff 15-20 years old.

I've been gaming for 35 years now (I'm 38) and the oldest game I still play with any frequency is Minecraft, though it is continually updated.

Why the fuck would I play the Star Wars game for Atari (oldest game I can remember playing) when I can play Halo 5, Forza, Minecraft, No Man's Sky, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, GOTG, etc?
The oldest game I still play is probably Yar's Revenge, which I believe is older than me by a few years
Spades the card game or Farkle the dice game.
Age of Empires II
